templates/ads-b/README.md, before:

# Aircraft Tracking Data Processing

This project processes and transforms aircraft tracking data from various sources into a standardized format for analysis and visualization.

# Getting Started

1. Install Moose / Aurora: `bash -i <(curl -fsSL https://fiveonefour.com/install.sh) moose,aurora`
2. Create project `aurora init aircraft ads-b`
3. Install dependencies: `cd aircraft && npm install`
5. Run Moose: `moose dev`

You are ready to go!

## Overview

The system takes raw aircraft tracking data (such as ADS-B data) and transforms it into a flattened data model that's optimized for storage and querying. 

It is currently only pulling from military aircraft.

## Data Models

### Input Data Models

- `AircraftTrackingData_altBaroString`: Raw aircraft data where altitude may be represented as a string (e.g., "Ground" or numeric values)

### Output Data Models

- `FlattenedAircraftTrackingData`: Standardized data model with normalized fields and additional computed values

## Processing Functions

- `AircraftTrackingData__FlattenedAircraftTrackingData.ts`: Transforms the raw data into the flattened format, handling special cases like "Ground" altitude



## License

Commit message:

Next inspired template readme (#2248)
* Next inspired template readme

* add prereqs

* added ads-b-frontend new style docs

* goodreads readme

* add docs next app empty

templates/ads-b/README.md, after:

This is a [Moose](https://docs.fiveonefour.com/moose) project bootstrapped with [`moose init`](https://docs.fiveonefour.com/moose/reference/moose-cli#init) or [`aurora init`](https://docs.fiveonefour.com/aurora/cli-reference#init)

## Getting Started

Prerequisites
* [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/)
* [Node](https://nodejs.org/en)
* [An Anthropic API Key](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/api/getting-started)
* [Cursor](https://www.cursor.com/) or [Claude Desktop](https://claude.ai/download)

1. Install Moose / Aurora: `bash -i <(curl -fsSL https://fiveonefour.com/install.sh) moose,aurora`
2. Create project `aurora init aircraft ads-b`
3. Install dependencies: `cd aircraft && npm install`
5. Run Moose: `moose dev`

You are ready to go!

You can start editing the app by modifying primitives in the `app` subdirectory. The dev server auto-updates as you edit the file.

This project gets data from http://adsb.lol.

## Learn More

To learn more about Moose, take a look at the following resources:

- [Moose Documentation](https://docs.fiveonefour.com/moose) - learn about Moose.
- [Aurora Documentation](https://docs.fiveonefour.com/aurora) - learn about Aurora, the MCP interface for data engineering.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## Deploy on Boreal

The easiest way to deploy your Moose app is to use the [Boreal](https://www.fiveonefour.com/boreal) from Fiveonefour, the creators of Moose and Aurora.

[Sign up](https://www.boreal.cloud/sign-up).

# Template: ADS-B

This project processes and transforms aircraft tracking data from various sources into a standardized format for analysis and visualization. It is currently only pulling from military aircraft.

It has example workflows, data models and streaming functions. If you want to explore egress primitives, try using [Aurora](https://docs.fiveonefour.com/aurora) to generate them.

## License

This template is MIT licenced.
