README.md, before:

<a href="https://www.getmoose.dev/"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/514-labs/moose/main/logo-m-light.png" alt="moose logo" height="100px"></a>

[![NPM Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/%40514labs%2Fmoose-cli?logo=npm)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@514labs/moose-cli?activeTab=readme)
[![Moose Community](https://img.shields.io/badge/slack-moose_community-purple.svg?logo=slack)](https://join.slack.com/t/moose-community/shared_invite/zt-2fjh5n3wz-cnOmM9Xe9DYAgQrNu8xKxg)
[![Docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/quick_start-docs-blue.svg)](https://docs.moosejs.com/)
[![MIT license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-yellow.svg)](LICENSE)

[Moose](https://www.getmoose.dev/) is an open-source data engineering framework designed to drastically accellerate AI-enabled software developers, as you prototype and scale data-intensive features and applications.

To learn more and/or get started using Moose, check out the documentation: [https://docs.getmoose.dev/](https://docs.getmoose.dev/)

# Beta release

Moose is beta software and is in active development. Multiple public companies across the globe are using Moose in production. We’d love for you to get your hands on it and try it out. If you're interested in using Moose in production, or if you just want to chat, you can reach us at [hello@moosejs.dev](mailto:hello@moosejs.dev) or in the Moose developer community below.

# Community

You can join the Moose community [on Slack](https://join.slack.com/t/moose-community/shared_invite/zt-2fjh5n3wz-cnOmM9Xe9DYAgQrNu8xKxg).

Here you can get together with other Moose developers, ask questions, give feedback, make feature requests, and interact directly with Moose maintainers.

# Contributing

We welcome contributions to Moose! Please check out the [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/514-labs/moose/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).

# Made by 514

Our mission at [fiveonefour](https://www.fiveonefour.com/) is to bring incredible developer experiences to the data stack. If you’re interested in enterprise solutions, commercial support, or design partnerships, then we’d love to chat with you: [hello@moosejs.dev](mailto:hello@moosejs.dev)

Commit message:

Update README.md (#1872)
Cleaning up the copy on this to make it clear users know where to go to get started via QuickStart Tutorial in Docs.

Added "Get started with Moose" section that points users to the Quickstart Tutorials in Docs or the main Docs landing page. 

Added the Quickstart Tutorial link in the Beta release section as well (get your hands on it and try it out)

README.md, after:

<a href="https://www.getmoose.dev/"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/514-labs/moose/main/logo-m-light.png" alt="moose logo" height="100px"></a>

[![NPM Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/%40514labs%2Fmoose-cli?logo=npm)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@514labs/moose-cli?activeTab=readme)
[![Moose Community](https://img.shields.io/badge/slack-moose_community-purple.svg?logo=slack)](https://join.slack.com/t/moose-community/shared_invite/zt-2fjh5n3wz-cnOmM9Xe9DYAgQrNu8xKxg)
[![Docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/quick_start-docs-blue.svg)](https://docs.moosejs.com/)
[![MIT license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-yellow.svg)](LICENSE)

[Moose](https://www.getmoose.dev/) is an open-source data engineering framework designed to drastically accellerate AI-enabled software developers, as you prototype and scale data-intensive features and applications.

# Get started with Moose

Get up and running with your own Moose project in minutes by using our [Quick Start Tutorial](https://docs.getmoose.dev/quickstart). We also have our [Docs](https://docs.getmoose.dev/) where you can pick your path, learn more about Moose, and learn what types of applications can be built with Moose.

# Beta release

Moose is beta software and is in active development. Multiple public companies across the globe are using Moose in production. We’d love for you to [get your hands on it and try it out](https://docs.getmoose.dev/quickstart). If you're interested in using Moose in production, or if you just want to chat, you can reach us at [hello@moosejs.dev](mailto:hello@moosejs.dev) or in the Moose developer community below.

# Community

You can join the Moose community [on Slack](https://join.slack.com/t/moose-community/shared_invite/zt-2fjh5n3wz-cnOmM9Xe9DYAgQrNu8xKxg).

Here you can get together with other Moose developers, ask questions, give feedback, make feature requests, and interact directly with Moose maintainers.

# Contributing

We welcome contributions to Moose! Please check out the [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/514-labs/moose/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).

# Made by 514

Our mission at [fiveonefour](https://www.fiveonefour.com/) is to bring incredible developer experiences to the data stack. If you’re interested in enterprise solutions, commercial support, or design partnerships, then we’d love to chat with you: [hello@moosejs.dev](mailto:hello@moosejs.dev)
