apps/framework-docs/src/pages/architecture.mdx, before:

import { ZoomImg } from "../components";

# Data Stack Architecture

<ZoomImg src="/img-diagram-full-dark.svg" />

Based on the Moose primitives that you define in your application, Moose will automatically configure and manage your underlying data infrastructure, including:

- An ingestion layer with API endpoints and automatically generated SDKs (as defined by your Data Models), to capture data from other applications or services
- A storage and processing layer - with streaming buffers to handle peak load ingestion, and database tables to capture raw and processed data - again, as defined by your Data Models
- An orchestration layer for managing data movement and transformations - as defined by your Streaming Functions and Aggregations
- A semantic layer to maintain data products available for downstream consumers - as defined by your Data Models, Streaming Functions, and Aggregations
- A consumption layer with API endpoints and automatically generated SDKs (as defined by your Data Models, Streaming Functions, and Aggregations), to make data easily accessible by other applications and services

## Packaging Architecture

Your Moose applications can be packaged up to run in two similar but distinct architectures:

1. Local dev server, aka “Dev”
2. Production deployment, aka “Prod”

<ZoomImg src="/CONTAINER-ARCH.svg" />

The “Dev” packaging is designed to run locally on your machine as you are developing.
You can locally run your Moose app in this configuration automatically via the Moose CLI with the `moose dev` command.
Your app will update in realtime based on code changes, and generally does not seek to preserve local data across changes.
This architecture comes with “batteries included”, container-based infrastructure packaged in, so it’s lightweight and easy to get up and running.
Specifically, a [Redpanda](https://redpanda.com/) container is included for data streaming,
a [Clickhouse](https://clickhouse.com/) container is included for data storage.
Node/Python processes are also created for data processing (ie. Streaming Functions).

The “Prod” architecture is designed to run on-prem or in the cloud of your choice, and support highly scaled production workloads. Your entire Moose application is packaged into a single container for easy deployment and scaling. You can package your Moose app in this configuration automatically via the Moose CLI with the `moose build --docker` command. It can be updated with a standard deployment process (such as CI/CD automation), and it provides deep assurances of underlying data integrity across versions and deployments. This architecture does NOT come with storage and streaming infrastructure included – it’s designed to run on top of the production data streaming and data storage clusters of your choice. Currently Moose supports [Redpanda](https://redpanda.com/) for data streaming, and [Clickhouse](https://clickhouse.com/) for data storage.

Commit message:

Olivia/docs cleanup (#2062)
* quickstart ingest sample

* timestamp on ingest samples

* proj level install for node

* min node version

* update egress examples

* change sidebar for egress api

* clean up

* add import

* copy buttons

* fix ts default block group by

* ingest python script optional arg

* add blank templates.mdx page to remove from sidebar

* missing return statement for python ingest flow

apps/framework-docs/src/pages/architecture.mdx, after:

import { ZoomImg } from "../components";

# Data Stack Architecture

Moose automates your data infrastructure with the following components:

- **Ingestion Layer**: Captures data via API endpoints and SDKs.
- **Streaming Layer**: Manages peak loads with streaming buffers and processes to transform data between data model streams.
- **Database Layer**: Uses OLAP databases for storing and querying data.
- **Orchestration Layer**: Sets up workflows for data ingestion, transformation, storage, and querying.
- **Database Transformation Layer**: Defines pipelines with views and materialized views for pre-computed datasets.
- **Consumption Layer**: Builds custom analytics APIs with type-safe endpoints for user-facing analytics and dashboards.

## Packaging Architecture

Moose applications can be packaged in two ways:

1. **Dev**: Local server with Redpanda for streaming, Clickhouse for storage, Node/Python for processing, and Temporal for orchestration. Run with `moose dev`.
2. **Prod**: Scalable deployment on-prem, in the cloud, or on [Boreal.cloud](https://boreal.cloud). Package with `moose build --docker`.

<ZoomImg src="/CONTAINER-ARCH.svg" />

The "Dev" setup is for local development, updating in real-time with code changes. It includes all necessary infrastructure for easy setup.

The "Prod" setup supports large-scale workloads, packaged for easy deployment and scaling. It integrates with existing data clusters, supporting Redpanda for streaming and Clickhouse for storage.

## Modularizing Infrastructure

Moose allows you to customize your infrastructure. Exclude components like Redpanda if not needed, ensuring your application is optimized for your specific use case.
