apps/framework-docs/src/pages/moose-cli.mdx, before:

import { Tabs } from "nextra/components";

# Moose CLI Reference

## Installation

Moose comes with a handy CLI for managing your application. Navigate to your project's directory to run commands. There are a few ways to run the CLI:

<Tabs items={['No Install', 'Project-level Install', 'Global Install']}>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    The simplest method to run the CLI is via NPX. No extra installation is necessary for this method.
    ```bash filename="Terminal" copy
    npx @514labs/moose-cli <command>
    ```
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    Alternatively, the Moose CLI comes packaged with your Moose application. You can install the dependency locally and then run the Moose CLI within your project with:
    ```bash filename="Terminal" copy
    npm install
    npm run moose <command> 
    // or 
    npx moose-cli <command>
    ```
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    Finally, you can install the Moose CLI globally using NPM. This will get you a cleaner command interface, and better performance on the CLI. You can then run the Moose CLI anywhere.  
    ```txt filename="Terminal" copy
    npm install -g @514labs/moose-cli
    moose <command>
    ```
  </Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>

# Commands

### Init

Instead of using `create-moose-app`, you can initialize your project manually with the CLI, if you'd like more flexibility and control. Either option will initialize a new Moose project for you, with all the necessary directories including temporary ones for data storage.

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose init <name> --language <language> <--location <location>> <--no-fail-already-exists>
```

- `<name>`: Name of your app or service.
- `--language <language>`: Language of your app or service. We currently support `ts` (Typescript) and `python`.
- `--location <location>`: Location of your app or service. The default is the name of the project.
- `--no-fail-already-exists`: By default, the init command fails if `location` exists, to prevent accidental reruns. This flag disables the check.

### Build

Builds your moose project. Syncs model changes, performs cleanup and prepares your project for use and deployment.

When the `--docker` flag is used, the Moose build command also packages your project into local Docker containers.
You can also use optional flags to specify which architecture to build for.

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose build <--docker> <--amd64 | --arm64>
```

### Dev

Starts a development environment running the full stack of your MooseJS application locally. As you develop your MooseJS application locally, changes you make to your codebase will be automatically reflected here in real-time (when you save changes).

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose dev
```

### Prod

Starts Moose in production mode. This command is automatically invoked from a packaged Moose Docker container.

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose prod
```

### Check

Checks the project for non-runtime errors.

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose check
```

### Data Model

#### Data Model Init

Initializes a new Data Model for your project. By specifying a sample data file, the CLI will be able to auto-generate the schema for you based on the data itself. Learn more about Data Models [here](/data-models).

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose data-model init <NAME> --sample <SAMPLE>
```

- `<NAME>`: Name of your data model.
- `<SAMPLE>`: Path to a sample `.csv` or `.json` data file to introspect the schema from.

### Import

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose import --file <FILE> <DATA_MODEL_NAME>
```

- `<FILE>`: Path to a `.csv` or `.json` file to import into the Data Model.
- `<DATA_MODEL_NAME>`: Name of the Data Model to import the file into.

### Function

#### Function Init

Generates a new Streaming Function for you, including creating and structuring the necessary files
based on your specified Data Models. Learn more in the [Streaming Function docs](/stream-processing).

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose function init --source <SOURCE> --destination <DESTINATION>
```

- `<SOURCE>`: Name of the source Data Model.
- `<DESTINATION>`: Name of the destination Data Model.

### Block

#### Block Init

Generates a new Block for your project. Learn more in the [Blocks docs](/db-processing).

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose block init <NAME>
```

- `<NAME>`: Name of your block.

### Consumption

#### Consumption Init

Generates a new Consumption API for your project. Learn more in the [Consumption docs](/consumption-apis).

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose consumption init <NAME>
```

- `<NAME>`: Name of your consumption API route.

### Generate

#### Generate SDK

Generates an ingest sdk for the specified project.

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose generate sdk -l <Language> -d <Directory> -p <ProjectLocation>
```

- `-l, --language`: Language of the SDK. We currently only support `Typescript`.
- `-d, --destination`: Directory to generate the SDK in.
- `-p, --project`: Location of the project to generate the SDK for.
- `-f, --full-package`: Whether or not to generate a full fledged package or just the source files in the language of choice.

#### Generate Migrations

Generates migration scripts for models that are different from the previous version. Learn more in the [Data Change Management docs](/data-models/dcm).

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose generate migrations
```

### Bump Version

Bumps the `version` field in `package.json`, and adds an entry of the current version and commit hash to `[supported_old_versions]` section in `moose.config.toml`. Learn more in the [Data Change Management docs](../data-models/dcm).

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose bump-version <new_version>
```

- `<new_version>`: optional parameter, if omitted, moose will default to bumping the minor version.

### Clean

Clears all temporary data and stops development infrastructure.

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose clean
```

### Logs

View logs to help debug how data moves through Moose.

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose logs <--tail> <--filter <search_string>>
```

### Processes

View processes created by Moose, such as its underlying streaming platform & database with local access credentials.

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose ps
```

### List

View Moose primitives & infrastructure.

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose ls -v <version> -l <limit> -s
```

- `-v, --version`: View a specific version of data models & database infrastructure. Defaults to latest version.
- `-l, --limit`: Limit output to a specific number of data models. Defaults to 10.
- `-s, --streaming`: View streaming topics per data model.

### Metrics

View live metrics from your Moose application

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose metrics
```

Commit message:

Update moose-cli.mdx (#1909)
added empty, fixed language for moose init docs

apps/framework-docs/src/pages/moose-cli.mdx, after:

import { Tabs } from "nextra/components";

# Moose CLI Reference

## Installation

Moose comes with a handy CLI for managing your application. Navigate to your project's directory to run commands. There are a few ways to run the CLI:

<Tabs items={['No Install', 'Project-level Install', 'Global Install']}>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    The simplest method to run the CLI is via NPX. No extra installation is necessary for this method.
    ```bash filename="Terminal" copy
    npx @514labs/moose-cli <command>
    ```
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    Alternatively, the Moose CLI comes packaged with your Moose application. You can install the dependency locally and then run the Moose CLI within your project with:
    ```bash filename="Terminal" copy
    npm install
    npm run moose <command> 
    // or 
    npx moose-cli <command>
    ```
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    Finally, you can install the Moose CLI globally using NPM. This will get you a cleaner command interface, and better performance on the CLI. You can then run the Moose CLI anywhere.  
    ```txt filename="Terminal" copy
    npm install -g @514labs/moose-cli
    moose <command>
    ```
  </Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>

# Commands

### Init

Instead of using `create-moose-app`, you can initialize your project manually with the CLI, if you'd like more flexibility and control. Either option will initialize a new Moose project for you, with all the necessary directories including temporary ones for data storage.

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose init <name> --language <language> <--location <location>> <--no-fail-already-exists>
```

- `<name>`: Name of your app or service.
- `<language>`: Language of your app or service. We currently support `ts` (Typescript) and `python`.
- `--location <location>`: Location of your app or service. The default is the name of the project.
- `--no-fail-already-exists`: By default, the init command fails if `location` exists, to prevent accidental reruns. This flag disables the check.
- `--empty`: Creates a Moose project without example files for each primitive

### Build

Builds your moose project. Syncs model changes, performs cleanup and prepares your project for use and deployment.

When the `--docker` flag is used, the Moose build command also packages your project into local Docker containers.
You can also use optional flags to specify which architecture to build for.

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose build <--docker> <--amd64 | --arm64>
```

### Dev

Starts a development environment running the full stack of your MooseJS application locally. As you develop your MooseJS application locally, changes you make to your codebase will be automatically reflected here in real-time (when you save changes).

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose dev
```

### Prod

Starts Moose in production mode. This command is automatically invoked from a packaged Moose Docker container.

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose prod
```

### Check

Checks the project for non-runtime errors.

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose check
```

### Data Model

#### Data Model Init

Initializes a new Data Model for your project. By specifying a sample data file, the CLI will be able to auto-generate the schema for you based on the data itself. Learn more about Data Models [here](/data-models).

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose data-model init <NAME> --sample <SAMPLE>
```

- `<NAME>`: Name of your data model.
- `<SAMPLE>`: Path to a sample `.csv` or `.json` data file to introspect the schema from.

### Import

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose import --file <FILE> <DATA_MODEL_NAME>
```

- `<FILE>`: Path to a `.csv` or `.json` file to import into the Data Model.
- `<DATA_MODEL_NAME>`: Name of the Data Model to import the file into.

### Function

#### Function Init

Generates a new Streaming Function for you, including creating and structuring the necessary files
based on your specified Data Models. Learn more in the [Streaming Function docs](/stream-processing).

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose function init --source <SOURCE> --destination <DESTINATION>
```

- `<SOURCE>`: Name of the source Data Model.
- `<DESTINATION>`: Name of the destination Data Model.

### Block

#### Block Init

Generates a new Block for your project. Learn more in the [Blocks docs](/db-processing).

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose block init <NAME>
```

- `<NAME>`: Name of your block.

### Consumption

#### Consumption Init

Generates a new Consumption API for your project. Learn more in the [Consumption docs](/consumption-apis).

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose consumption init <NAME>
```

- `<NAME>`: Name of your consumption API route.

### Generate

#### Generate SDK

Generates an ingest sdk for the specified project.

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose generate sdk -l <Language> -d <Directory> -p <ProjectLocation>
```

- `-l, --language`: Language of the SDK. We currently only support `Typescript`.
- `-d, --destination`: Directory to generate the SDK in.
- `-p, --project`: Location of the project to generate the SDK for.
- `-f, --full-package`: Whether or not to generate a full fledged package or just the source files in the language of choice.

#### Generate Migrations

Generates migration scripts for models that are different from the previous version. Learn more in the [Data Change Management docs](/data-models/dcm).

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose generate migrations
```

### Bump Version

Bumps the `version` field in `package.json`, and adds an entry of the current version and commit hash to `[supported_old_versions]` section in `moose.config.toml`. Learn more in the [Data Change Management docs](../data-models/dcm).

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose bump-version <new_version>
```

- `<new_version>`: optional parameter, if omitted, moose will default to bumping the minor version.

### Clean

Clears all temporary data and stops development infrastructure.

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose clean
```

### Logs

View logs to help debug how data moves through Moose.

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose logs <--tail> <--filter <search_string>>
```

### Processes

View processes created by Moose, such as its underlying streaming platform & database with local access credentials.

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose ps
```

### List

View Moose primitives & infrastructure.

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose ls -v <version> -l <limit> -s
```

- `-v, --version`: View a specific version of data models & database infrastructure. Defaults to latest version.
- `-l, --limit`: Limit output to a specific number of data models. Defaults to 10.
- `-s, --streaming`: View streaming topics per data model.

### Metrics

View live metrics from your Moose application

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose metrics
```
