apps/framework-docs/src/pages/quick-reference.mdx, before:

import { Tabs, Callout } from "nextra/components";

# Quick Reference

This is a quick guide on using MooseJS with all the basic code in one place. For more details you can visit individual pages on each section.

---

<Tabs items={["Data Models", "Streaming Functions", "Aggregations", "Consumption APIs"]}>

    <Tabs.Tab>
        ## Creating a Model

        To create a data model you need to open the `models.ts` file in your project's `datamodels` directory
        and add a new Data Model definition.

        ```ts filename="datamodels/models.ts" copy
        import { Key } from "@514labs/moose-lib";

        export interface UserActivity {
          eventId: Key<string>;
          timestamp: string;
          userId: string;
          activity: string;
        }
        ```

        ## Supported Types

        Here is the status of MooseJS support for various data types in Data Models:
        | Clickhouse | Typescript | Moose |
        |:---------- |:---------- |:------- |
        | String | String | ✅ |
        | Boolean | Boolean | ✅ |
        | Int64 | Number | ✅ |
        | Int256 | BigInt | ❌ |
        | Float64 | Number | ✅ |
        | Decimal | Number | ✅ |
        | DateTime | Date | ✅ |
        | Json | Object | ❌ |
        | Bytes | bytes | ❌ |
        | Enum | Enum | ✅ |
        | Array | Array | ✅ |
        | nullable | nullable | ✅ |

        <Callout type="info" emoji="ℹ️">
        Disclaimer: All Typescript number types are mapped to Float64
        </Callout>

        ## Configuring Data Models

        To set the configuration for a data model, just export a configuration object from the model file
        with the data model name as a prefix and `config` as the suffix, like so:

        ```ts filename="UserActivity.ts" copy
        import { Key, DataModelConfig, IngestionFormat } from "@514labs/moose-lib";

        // <modelName>Config
        export const UserActivityConfig: DataModelConfig<UserActivity> = {
          ingestion: {
            format: "json",
          },
          storage: {
            enabled: true,
            order_by_fields: ["timestamp"],
          },
        };

        export interface UserActivity {
          eventId: Key<string>;
          timestamp: string;
          userId: string;
          activity: string;
        }
        ```

        ## Test Your Model

        When you create a model, MooseJS automatically creates an ingestion point to facilitate immediate data
        testing. Send a sample payload to this endpoint using:

        <Tabs items={["Single Data Sample", "Batch Sample"]}>
            <Tabs.Tab>
            ``` bash
            curl -X POST \
              -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
              -d '{"eventId": "1234567890", "timestamp": "2019-01-01 00:00:01", "userId": "123456", "activityType":"click"}' \
              http://localhost:4000/ingest/UserActivity
            ```
            </Tabs.Tab>
            <Tabs.Tab>
            ``` bash
            for i in {1..10}
            do
              curl -X POST \
                -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
                -d '{"eventId": "$i", "timestamp": "2024-01-01 00:00:00", "userId": "1234", "activityType":"click"}' \
                http://localhost:4000/ingest/UserActivity
            done
            ```
            </Tabs.Tab>
        </Tabs>

        ## Ingesting via API Endpoints

        MooseJS will automatically generate ingestion points for you to send data to.The default port is `4000`.
        The standard endpoint for each data model is:

        `http://localhost:4000/ingest/<DataModelName>`

        Following is some example code for testing the API endpoints for a Data Model called `UserActivity`. In
        the Moose developer console, when you view your Data Model, go to the `Setup` tab, and you'll find sample
        code for utilizing the API Endpoints for your specific models.

        <Tabs items={['curl', 'javascript', 'python']}>
        <Tabs.Tab>
            ``` bash
        curl -X POST \
            -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
            -d '{"eventId": "1234567890", "timestamp": "2019-01-01 00:00:01", "userId": "123456", "activityType": "click"}' \
            http://localhost:4000/ingest/UserActivity
        ```
        </Tabs.Tab>
        <Tabs.Tab>
        ```javascript
        fetch('http://localhost:4000/ingest/UserActivity', {
          method: 'POST',
          headers: {
            'Content-Type': 'application/json'
          },
          body: JSON.stringify({
            eventId: '1234567890',
            timestamp: '2019-01-01 00:00:01',
            userId: '123456',
            activityType: 'click'
          })
        })
        ```
        </Tabs.Tab>
        <Tabs.Tab>
        ```python
            import requests

            requests.post('http://localhost:4000/ingest/UserActivity', json={
              'eventId': '1234567890',
              'timestamp': '2019-01-01 00:00:01',
              'userId': '123456',
              'activityType': 'click'
            })
            ```

        </Tabs.Tab>

        You can also ingest data using the MooseJS SDK. To learn more about the different ways to ingest data refer to the [Ingesting Data](/building/data-models/capture-data) page.
        </Tabs>

        ---

        For more information refer to the [Data Models Usage](/building/data-models/model-data) page.
    </Tabs.Tab>
    <Tabs.Tab>
        ## Create a Streaming Function in CLI

        Initiate your streaming function setup in Moose with the `moose function init` CLI command.

        ```txt filename="Terminal" copy
        moose function init --source <YourSourceDataModel> --destination <YourDestinationDataModel>
        ```

        By way of example:

        ```txt filename="Terminal" copy
        moose function init --source UserActivity --destination ParsedActivity
        ```

        Represents a streaming function from a source data model `UserActivity` and a destination
        data model `ParsedActivity`, which themselves were defined in
        `/datamodels/models.ts`:

        ```ts filename="models.ts"
        import { Key } from "@514labs/moose-lib";

        export interface UserActivity {
            ...
        }

        export interface ParsedActivity {
            ...
        }
        ```

        Ensure your development server is running to keep Moose updated with your data
        model definitions. When you run this command, you will create the streaming function file
        and file structure described below.


        ## Transformation Logic

        Now that you have your streaming function file, you have to define the transformations within it.

        Here's an example streaming function that converts timestamps to UTC:

        ```ts filename="UserActivity__ParsedActivity.ts" copy {3-4,8}
        // Example streaming function: Converts local timestamps in UserEvent data to UTC.
        // Imports: Source (UserActivity) and Destination (ParsedActivity) data models.
        import { UserActivity } from "/path/to/UserActivity";
        import { ParsedActivity } from "/path/to/ParsedActivity";

        // The 'convertUtc' function transforms UserActivity data to ParsedActivity format.
        export default function convertUtc(
          source: UserActivity,
        ): ParsedActivity[] | ParsedActivity | null {
          // Convert local timestamp to UTC and return new ParsedActivity object.
          return {
            id: source.id, // Retain original event ID.
            userId: "puid" + source.userId, // Example: Prefix user ID.
            activity: source.activity, // Copy activity unchanged.
            timestamp: new Date(source.timestamp), // Convert timestamp to UTC.
          };
        }
        ```

        Adjust function specifics according to your data transformation needs. The
        function's return type can be null (meaning no transformation will take place),
        a single object, or an array of objects.

        To test and confirm your streaming function's logic:

    1. Ingest test data into the source data model to trigger the function.
    2. After the streaming function processes the data, check the destination table in the database to see if the data has been
    transformed correctly.

    ---

    For more information refer to the [Streaming Functions](/building/streaming-functions/setup) page.
    </Tabs.Tab>
    <Tabs.Tab>
        ## Initialize Your Aggregation
        Run the following command in your CLI to get started with a new aggregation in your Moose project:

        ```bash copy
        moose aggregation init <aggregation_name>
        ```

        Replace `<aggregation_name>` with your desired name. This name will be used both as the filename of the aggregation and the table name of the aggregated data.

        ## Develop Your Aggregation Logic

        Define your query in the `<aggregation_name>.ts` file. This file must export an object with two properties:

        - `select`: A valid Clickhouse SQL `SELECT` query that aggregates data
        - `orderBy`: Columns that define the primary key for the target table where your query results will be stored. To define multiple columns, put them in parentheses e.g. `orderBy: “(column1, column2)”`

        ## Using Your Aggregation

        When you save the aggregation file, Moose automatically creates a new table named after your file and populates it with the results of the `SELECT` statement.

        ## Example Aggregation
        The default Moose project comes with an example aggregation, it calculates the number of unique users who complete a sign-in activity each day:

        ```ts filename="aggregations/DailyActiveUsers.ts" copy
        import { Aggregation } from "@514labs/moose-lib";

        export default {
          select: `
            SELECT
                count(distinct userId) as dailyActiveUsers,
                toStartOfDay(timestamp) as date
            FROM ParsedActivity_0_0
            WHERE activity = 'Login'
            GROUP BY toStartOfDay(timestamp)
            `,
          orderBy: "date",
        } as Aggregation;
        ```

        ---

        For more information refer to the [Aggregations](/building/aggregations/creating-aggregations) page.
    </Tabs.Tab>
    <Tabs.Tab>
        ## Initialize Your API Endpoint

        To create a new API endpoint, run this command in your CLI:

        ```bash copy
        moose api init <your-endpoint-name>
        ```

        This command creates a new file named `<your-endpoint-name>.ts` in the `/apis` folder of your Moose project.


        ## API function handler

        Open the newly created file and define your API using an asynchronous function.

        Example structure:

        ```ts filename="api/dailyActiveUsers.ts" copy
        interface QueryParams {
          limit: string;
          minDailyActiveUsers: string;
        }

        export default async function handle(
          { limit = "10", minDailyActiveUsers = "0" }: QueryParams,
          { client, sql },
        ) {
          return client.query(
            sql`SELECT
              date,
              dailyActiveUsers
            FROM DailyActiveUsers
            WHERE dailyActiveUsers >= ${parseInt(minDailyActiveUsers)}
            LIMIT ${parseInt(limit)}`,
          );
        }
        ```

        Your function handler should be an asynchronous function and the default export of the file.

        Additionally, the function takes two arguments:

        - An object containing the query parameters (with default values if needed).
        - An object containing helper functions, including the database client (`client`) and a SQL tag function (`sql`).

        ## Query Parameters

        Define your parameter names and data types in the QueryParams interface. Inject them into your SQL query template string.

        You can either parse your parameters within the template string directly or separately in your function before injecting them into the template string.

        ## Test Your API
        Test your API by making an HTTP GET request to your local Moose developer server at:
        `https://localhost:4000/consumption/<your-endpoint-name>`

        ---

        For more information refer to the [Consumption APIs](/building/consumption-apis/creating-endpoints) page.

    </Tabs.Tab>

</Tabs>

Commit message:

combine quick reference with primitives overview

apps/framework-docs/src/pages/quick-reference.mdx, after:

import { Tabs, Callout } from "nextra/components";

# Quick Reference

This is a quick guide on using MooseJS with all the basic code in one place. For more details you can visit individual pages on each section.

---

<Tabs items={["Data Models", "Streaming Functions", "Aggregations", "Consumption APIs"]}>

    <Tabs.Tab>
        ## Overview
        Data models define how incoming data should be structured, organized, and stored in your application. When you create or update a Data Model in your `/datamodels` folder, Moose integrates the schema into your project by generating an `/ingest` API endpoint, a streaming topic, and a database table. When you post data to the API, the framework handles ingesting, routing, buffering, and storing the data in your OLAP database.

        ## Creating a Model

        To create a data model you need to open the `models.ts` file in your project's `datamodels` directory
        and add a new Data Model definition.

        ```ts filename="datamodels/models.ts" copy
        import { Key } from "@514labs/moose-lib";

        export interface UserActivity {
          eventId: Key<string>;
          timestamp: string;
          userId: string;
          activity: string;
        }
        ```

        ## Supported Types

        Here is the status of MooseJS support for various data types in Data Models:
        | Clickhouse | Typescript | Moose |
        |:---------- |:---------- |:------- |
        | String | String | ✅ |
        | Boolean | Boolean | ✅ |
        | Int64 | Number | ✅ |
        | Int256 | BigInt | ❌ |
        | Float64 | Number | ✅ |
        | Decimal | Number | ✅ |
        | DateTime | Date | ✅ |
        | Json | Object | ❌ |
        | Bytes | bytes | ❌ |
        | Enum | Enum | ✅ |
        | Array | Array | ✅ |
        | nullable | nullable | ✅ |

        <Callout type="info" emoji="ℹ️">
        Disclaimer: All Typescript number types are mapped to Float64
        </Callout>

        ## Configuring Data Models

        To set the configuration for a data model, just export a configuration object from the model file
        with the data model name as a prefix and `config` as the suffix, like so:

        ```ts filename="UserActivity.ts" copy
        import { Key, DataModelConfig, IngestionFormat } from "@514labs/moose-lib";

        // <modelName>Config
        export const UserActivityConfig: DataModelConfig<UserActivity> = {
          ingestion: {
            format: "json",
          },
          storage: {
            enabled: true,
            order_by_fields: ["timestamp"],
          },
        };

        export interface UserActivity {
          eventId: Key<string>;
          timestamp: string;
          userId: string;
          activity: string;
        }
        ```

        ## Test Your Model

        When you create a model, Moose automatically creates an ingestion point to facilitate immediate data
        testing. Send a sample payload to this endpoint using:

        <Tabs items={["Single Data Sample", "Batch Sample"]}>
            <Tabs.Tab>
            ``` bash
            curl -X POST \
              -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
              -d '{"eventId": "1234567890", "timestamp": "2019-01-01 00:00:01", "userId": "123456", "activity":"click"}' \
              http://localhost:4000/ingest/UserActivity
            ```
            </Tabs.Tab>
            <Tabs.Tab>
            ``` bash
            for i in {1..10}
            do
              curl -X POST \
                -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
                -d '{"eventId": "$i", "timestamp": "2024-01-01 00:00:00", "userId": "1234", "activity":"click"}' \
                http://localhost:4000/ingest/UserActivity
            done
            ```
            </Tabs.Tab>
        </Tabs>

        ## Ingesting via API Endpoints

        MooseJS will automatically generate ingestion points for you to send data to.The default port is `4000`.
        The standard endpoint for each data model is:

        `http://localhost:4000/ingest/<DataModelName>`

        Following is some example code for testing the API endpoints for a Data Model called `UserActivity`. In
        the Moose developer console, when you view your Data Model, go to the `Setup` tab, and you'll find sample
        code for utilizing the API Endpoints for your specific models.

        <Tabs items={['curl', 'javascript', 'python']}>
        <Tabs.Tab>
            ``` bash
        curl -X POST \
            -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
            -d '{"eventId": "1234567890", "timestamp": "2019-01-01 00:00:01", "userId": "123456", "activity": "click"}' \
            http://localhost:4000/ingest/UserActivity
        ```
        </Tabs.Tab>
        <Tabs.Tab>
        ```javascript
        fetch('http://localhost:4000/ingest/UserActivity', {
          method: 'POST',
          headers: {
            'Content-Type': 'application/json'
          },
          body: JSON.stringify({
            eventId: '1234567890',
            timestamp: '2019-01-01 00:00:01',
            userId: '123456',
            activity: 'click'
          })
        })
        ```
        </Tabs.Tab>
        <Tabs.Tab>
        ```python
            import requests

            requests.post('http://localhost:4000/ingest/UserActivity', json={
              'eventId': '1234567890',
              'timestamp': '2019-01-01 00:00:01',
              'userId': '123456',
              'activity': 'click'
            })
            ```

        </Tabs.Tab>

        You can also ingest data using the Moose SDK. To learn more about the different ways to ingest data refer to the [Ingesting Data](/building/data-models/capture-data) page.
        </Tabs>

        ---

        For more information refer to the [Data Models Usage](/building/data-models/model-data) page.
    </Tabs.Tab>
    <Tabs.Tab>
        ## Overview
        Streaming Functions let you create custom functions to process incoming records of data in stream. They are suited for tasks like transforming, augmenting, or reacting to data before it reaches the database. These functions use a source Data Model as input and a destination Data Model as output, instructing Moose on which streaming topics to listen to and where to publish the results. Moose will automatically run your function on new records for the specified source Data Model. You can chain multiple Streaming Functions for complex, multi-step data processing workflows.

        ## Create a Streaming Function in CLI

        Initiate your streaming function setup in Moose with the `moose function init` CLI command.

        ```txt filename="Terminal" copy
        moose function init --source <YourSourceDataModel> --destination <YourDestinationDataModel>
        ```

        By way of example:

        ```txt filename="Terminal" copy
        moose function init --source UserActivity --destination ParsedActivity
        ```

        Represents a streaming function from a source data model `UserActivity` and a destination
        data model `ParsedActivity`, which themselves were defined in
        `/datamodels/models.ts`:

        ```ts filename="models.ts"
        import { Key } from "@514labs/moose-lib";

        export interface UserActivity {
            ...
        }

        export interface ParsedActivity {
            ...
        }
        ```

        Ensure your development server is running to keep Moose updated with your data
        model definitions. When you run this command, you will create the streaming function file
        and file structure described below.


        ## Transformation Logic

        Now that you have your streaming function file, you have to define the transformations within it.

        Here's an example streaming function that converts timestamps to UTC:

        ```ts filename="UserActivity__ParsedActivity.ts" copy {3-4,8}
        // Example streaming function: Converts local timestamps in UserEvent data to UTC.
        // Imports: Source (UserActivity) and Destination (ParsedActivity) data models.
        import { UserActivity } from "/path/to/UserActivity";
        import { ParsedActivity } from "/path/to/ParsedActivity";

        // The 'convertUtc' function transforms UserActivity data to ParsedActivity format.
        export default function convertUtc(
          source: UserActivity,
        ): ParsedActivity[] | ParsedActivity | null {
          // Convert local timestamp to UTC and return new ParsedActivity object.
          return {
            id: source.id, // Retain original event ID.
            userId: "puid" + source.userId, // Example: Prefix user ID.
            activity: source.activity, // Copy activity unchanged.
            timestamp: new Date(source.timestamp), // Convert timestamp to UTC.
          };
        }
        ```

        Adjust function specifics according to your data transformation needs. The
        function's return type can be null (meaning no transformation will take place),
        a single object, or an array of objects.

        To test and confirm your streaming function's logic:

    1. Ingest test data into the source data model to trigger the function.
    2. After the streaming function processes the data, check the destination table in the database to see if the data has been
    transformed correctly.

    ---

    For more information refer to the [Streaming Functions](/building/streaming-functions/setup) page.
    </Tabs.Tab>
    <Tabs.Tab>
        ## Initialize Your Aggregation
        Run the following command in your CLI to get started with a new aggregation in your Moose project:

        ```bash copy
        moose aggregation init <aggregation_name>
        ```

        Replace `<aggregation_name>` with your desired name. This name will be used both as the filename of the aggregation and the table name of the aggregated data.

        ## Develop Your Aggregation Logic

        Define your query in the `<aggregation_name>.ts` file. This file must export an object with two properties:

        - `select`: A valid Clickhouse SQL `SELECT` query that aggregates data
        - `orderBy`: Columns that define the primary key for the target table where your query results will be stored. To define multiple columns, put them in parentheses e.g. `orderBy: “(column1, column2)”`

        ## Using Your Aggregation

        When you save the aggregation file, Moose automatically creates a new table named after your file and populates it with the results of the `SELECT` statement.

        ## Example Aggregation
        The default Moose project comes with an example aggregation, it calculates the number of unique users who complete a sign-in activity each day:

        ```ts filename="aggregations/DailyActiveUsers.ts" copy
        import { Aggregation } from "@514labs/moose-lib";

        export default {
          select: `
            SELECT
                count(distinct userId) as dailyActiveUsers,
                toStartOfDay(timestamp) as date
            FROM ParsedActivity_0_0
            WHERE activity = 'Login'
            GROUP BY toStartOfDay(timestamp)
            `,
          orderBy: "date",
        } as Aggregation;
        ```

        ---

        For more information refer to the [Aggregations](/building/aggregations/creating-aggregations) page.
    </Tabs.Tab>
    <Tabs.Tab>
        ## Overview
        Consumption APIs are HTTP endpoints that retrieve and process data from your database based on client query parameters. As a developer, you create functions to handle these parameters and fetch or process data. When saved in the /apis folder of your project, Moose auto-generates and manages the /consumption HTTP endpoints, which run on the same web server as the /ingest APIs for your project’s data models. Upon client requests, Moose executes the function and sends the return values back to the client.

        ## Initialize Your API Endpoint

        To create a new API endpoint, run this command in your CLI:

        ```bash copy
        moose api init <your-endpoint-name>
        ```

        This command creates a new file named `<your-endpoint-name>.ts` in the `/apis` folder of your Moose project.


        ## API function handler

        Open the newly created file and define your API using an asynchronous function.

        Example structure:

        ```ts filename="api/dailyActiveUsers.ts" copy
        interface QueryParams {
          limit: string;
          minDailyActiveUsers: string;
        }

        export default async function handle(
          { limit = "10", minDailyActiveUsers = "0" }: QueryParams,
          { client, sql },
        ) {
          return client.query(
            sql`SELECT
              date,
              dailyActiveUsers
            FROM DailyActiveUsers
            WHERE dailyActiveUsers >= ${parseInt(minDailyActiveUsers)}
            LIMIT ${parseInt(limit)}`,
          );
        }
        ```

        Your function handler should be an asynchronous function and the default export of the file.

        Additionally, the function takes two arguments:

        - An object containing the query parameters (with default values if needed).
        - An object containing helper functions, including the database client (`client`) and a SQL tag function (`sql`).

        ## Query Parameters

        Define your parameter names and data types in the QueryParams interface. Inject them into your SQL query template string.

        You can either parse your parameters within the template string directly or separately in your function before injecting them into the template string.

        ## Test Your API
        Test your API by making an HTTP GET request to your local Moose developer server at:
        `https://localhost:4000/consumption/<your-endpoint-name>`

        ---

        For more information refer to the [Consumption APIs](/building/consumption-apis/creating-endpoints) page.

    </Tabs.Tab>

</Tabs>
