apps/framework-docs/src/pages/building/flows/setup.mdx, before:

import { Callout, FileTree, Link } from "nextra/components";

# Create Flow in CLI

Initiate your flow setup in Moose with the `moose flow init` CLI command. This
command structures your project's directory and creates necessary files based on
your specified data models.

```txt filename="Terminal" copy
moose flow init --source <YourSourceDataModel> --destination <YourDestinationDataModel>
```

This command takes two arguments: `--source` and `--destination`, which should
each be followed by the name of the source and destination data models you wish
to connect through this flow. These data models must exist before you create
your data flow. You can find a list of your existing data flows in
`/datamodels/models.ts`.

By way of example:

```txt filename="Terminal" copy
moose flow init --source UserActivity --destination ParsedActivity
```

Represents a data flow from a source data model `UserActivity` and a destination
data model `ParsedActivity`, which themselves were defined in
`/datamodels/models.ts`:

```ts filename="models.ts"
import { Key } from "@514labs/moose-lib";

export interface UserActivity {
    ...
}

export interface ParsedActivity {
    ...
}
```

Ensure your development server is running to keep Moose updated with your data
model definitions.

When you run this command, you will create the data flow file and file structure
described below.

# Directory Structure Post-Initialization

Running the `moose flow init` command with valid arguments will create a
`flow.ts` file to represent this newly created data flow, in the following
directory structure:

<FileTree>
  <FileTree.Folder name="my-moose-app" defaultOpen>
    <FileTree.Folder name="flows" defaultOpen>
      <FileTree.Folder name="UserActivity" defaultOpen>
        <FileTree.Folder name="ParsedActivity" defaultOpen>
          <FileTree.File name="flow.ts" />
        </FileTree.Folder>
      </FileTree.Folder>
    </FileTree.Folder>
  </FileTree.Folder>
</FileTree>

In the example above

```txt filename="Terminal"
my-moose-app/flows/UserActivity/ParsedActivity/flow.ts
```

Where:

|                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| -------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| UserActivity   | is the source data model Moose monitors for new data.                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| ParsedActivity | is the destination data model where Moose routes the transformed data.                                                                                                                                                                              |
| flow.ts        | is the transformation function file that contains the logic for data transformation. As long as this file is named `flow.ts`, Moose will apply the default function to each new data entry from the source, and save the output to the destination. |

The `flow.ts` file is a TypeScript file that you use to define the
transformation needed to get from your source data model to the destination. In
the `flow.ts` file created, Moose provides starter code. This code includes
imports for your source and destination data model interfaces and sets up a
default function template. The function is pre-configured with the correct
argument and return types based on the specified data models:

```ts filename="flow.ts" copy {2-3,7}
// Add your models & start the development server to import these types
import { UserActivity } from "/path/to/UserActivity";
import { ParsedActivity } from "/path/to/ParsedActivity";

// The 'run' function transforms source data to destination format.
// For more details on how Moose flows work, see: https://docs.moosejs.com
export default function run(event: UserActivity): ParsedActivity | null {
  return null;
}
```

# Develop Transformation Logic

Now that you have your data flow file, `flow.ts`, you have to define the
transformations within it: how you want to change the data in the source data
model to get to the output anticipated by the destination data model.

**This requires a default export function:** The transformation function should
be the file's default export, allowing Moose to automatically identify and
execute it.

**And allows for type definitions:** Use TypeScript interfaces generated for
your data models to type-check the function's input and output, ensuring they
match the source and destination data models, respectively.

Here's an example `flow.ts` that converts timestamps to UTC:

```ts filename="flow.ts" copy {3-4,8}
// Example flow function: Converts local timestamps in UserEvent data to UTC.
// Imports: Source (UserActivity) and Destination (ParsedActivity) data models.
import { UserActivity } from "/path/to/UserActivity";
import { ParsedActivity } from "/path/to/ParsedActivity";

// The 'convertUtc' function transforms UserActivity data to ParsedActivity format.
export default function convertUtc(
  source: UserActivity,
): ParsedActivity[] | ParsedActivity | null {
  // Convert local timestamp to UTC and return new ParsedActivity object.
  return {
    id: source.id, // Retain original event ID.
    userId: "puid" + source.userId, // Example: Prefix user ID.
    activity: source.activity, // Copy activity unchanged.
    timestamp: new Date(source.timestamp), // Convert timestamp to UTC.
  };
}
```

Adjust function specifics according to your data transformation needs. The
function's return type can be null (meaning no transformation will take place),
a single object, or an array of objects. This structured approach ensures
clarity in your data processing tasks, enabling Moose to efficiently handle and
automate data flows.

# Validate Your Flow

To test and confirm your flow's logic:

1. Send Test Data: Ingest test data into the source data model to trigger the
   flow.
2. Verify Transformation: After the flow processes the data, check the
   destination model in the Moose developer console to see if the data has been
   transformed correctly.

For detailed instructions on data ingestion, consult the [Ingesting
Data](../data-models/capture-data.mdx) section of the documentation.

<Callout type="info" emoji="ℹ️">
  Disclaimer: Flows are in alpha, meaning they can currently be used only in
  development environments and are not ready for production deployment. Progress
  is being made to enable the use of flows in production, with updates expected
  soon.
</Callout>

Commit message:

Updated the flows page docs to include how to split data into multiple db entries (#1509)
Co-authored-by: Aditya Chandrashekaran <aditya@Adityas-MacBook-Pro-2.local>

apps/framework-docs/src/pages/building/flows/setup.mdx, after:

import { Callout, FileTree, Link } from "nextra/components";

# Create Flow in CLI

Initiate your flow setup in Moose with the `moose flow init` CLI command. This
command structures your project's directory and creates necessary files based on
your specified data models.

```txt filename="Terminal" copy
moose flow init --source <YourSourceDataModel> --destination <YourDestinationDataModel>
```

This command takes two arguments: `--source` and `--destination`, which should
each be followed by the name of the source and destination data models you wish
to connect through this flow. These data models must exist before you create
your data flow. You can find a list of your existing data flows in
`/datamodels/models.ts`.

By way of example:

```txt filename="Terminal" copy
moose flow init --source UserActivity --destination ParsedActivity
```

Represents a data flow from a source data model `UserActivity` and a destination
data model `ParsedActivity`, which themselves were defined in
`/datamodels/models.ts`:

```ts filename="models.ts"
import { Key } from "@514labs/moose-lib";

export interface UserActivity {
    ...
}

export interface ParsedActivity {
    ...
}
```

Ensure your development server is running to keep Moose updated with your data
model definitions.

When you run this command, you will create the data flow file and file structure
described below.

# Directory Structure Post-Initialization

Running the `moose flow init` command with valid arguments will create a
`flow.ts` file to represent this newly created data flow, in the following
directory structure:

<FileTree>
  <FileTree.Folder name="my-moose-app" defaultOpen>
    <FileTree.Folder name="flows" defaultOpen>
      <FileTree.Folder name="UserActivity" defaultOpen>
        <FileTree.Folder name="ParsedActivity" defaultOpen>
          <FileTree.File name="flow.ts" />
        </FileTree.Folder>
      </FileTree.Folder>
    </FileTree.Folder>
  </FileTree.Folder>
</FileTree>

In the example above

```txt filename="Terminal"
my-moose-app/flows/UserActivity/ParsedActivity/flow.ts
```

Where:

|                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| -------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| UserActivity   | is the source data model Moose monitors for new data.                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| ParsedActivity | is the destination data model where Moose routes the transformed data.                                                                                                                                                                              |
| flow.ts        | is the transformation function file that contains the logic for data transformation. As long as this file is named `flow.ts`, Moose will apply the default function to each new data entry from the source, and save the output to the destination. |

The `flow.ts` file is a TypeScript file that you use to define the
transformation needed to get from your source data model to the destination. In
the `flow.ts` file created, Moose provides starter code. This code includes
imports for your source and destination data model interfaces and sets up a
default function template. The function is pre-configured with the correct
argument and return types based on the specified data models:

```ts filename="flow.ts" copy {2-3,7}
// Add your models & start the development server to import these types
import { UserActivity } from "/path/to/UserActivity";
import { ParsedActivity } from "/path/to/ParsedActivity";

// The 'run' function transforms source data to destination format.
// For more details on how Moose flows work, see: https://docs.moosejs.com
export default function run(event: UserActivity): ParsedActivity | null {
  return null;
}
```

# Develop Transformation Logic

Now that you have your data flow file, `flow.ts`, you have to define the
transformations within it: how you want to change the data in the source data
model to get to the output anticipated by the destination data model.

**This requires a default export function:** The transformation function should
be the file's default export, allowing Moose to automatically identify and
execute it.

**And allows for type definitions:** Use TypeScript interfaces generated for
your data models to type-check the function's input and output, ensuring they
match the source and destination data models, respectively.

Here's an example `flow.ts` that converts timestamps to UTC:

```ts filename="flow.ts" copy {3-4,8}
// Example flow function: Converts local timestamps in UserEvent data to UTC.
// Imports: Source (UserActivity) and Destination (ParsedActivity) data models.
import { UserActivity } from "/path/to/UserActivity";
import { ParsedActivity } from "/path/to/ParsedActivity";

// The 'convertUtc' function transforms UserActivity data to ParsedActivity format.
export default function convertUtc(
  source: UserActivity,
): ParsedActivity[] | ParsedActivity | null {
  // Convert local timestamp to UTC and return new ParsedActivity object.
  return {
    id: source.id, // Retain original event ID.
    userId: "puid" + source.userId, // Example: Prefix user ID.
    activity: source.activity, // Copy activity unchanged.
    timestamp: new Date(source.timestamp), // Convert timestamp to UTC.
  };
}
```

Adjust function specifics according to your data transformation needs. The
function's return type can be null (meaning no transformation will take place),
a single object, or an array of objects. This structured approach ensures
clarity in your data processing tasks, enabling Moose to efficiently handle and
automate data flows.

#### Splitting Data Into Multiple Entries

To create multiple entries you can return a array of the destination data model.
For example using the code above you can return an array with a type of `ParsedActivity[]`.
MooseJS would convert each object inside of the array into a seperate database entry.

# Validate Your Flow

To test and confirm your flow's logic:

1. Send Test Data: Ingest test data into the source data model to trigger the
   flow.
2. Verify Transformation: After the flow processes the data, check the
   destination model in the Moose developer console to see if the data has been
   transformed correctly.

For detailed instructions on data ingestion, consult the [Ingesting
Data](../data-models/capture-data.mdx) section of the documentation.

<Callout type="info" emoji="ℹ️">
  Disclaimer: Flows are in alpha, meaning they can currently be used only in
  development environments and are not ready for production deployment. Progress
  is being made to enable the use of flows in production, with updates expected
  soon.
</Callout>
