apps/framework-docs/src/pages/data-models/init-model.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from "../../components";

# Initializing a Data Model

## Using the CLI

To create a new Data Model in your Moose application, use the `moose data-model init` command. This will generate a `.ts` or `.py` file in the `/datamodels` directory and define your Data Model within it.

For detailed information about the `moose data-model init` command, you can run the following in your terminal:

```bash filename="Terminal" copy
npx moose-cli data-model init --help

```

<Callout type="info">
  If you have sample data in a `.json` or `.csv` file, you can use the
  `--sample` flag to specify the path to that file. The CLI will then infer the
  Data Model schema from the provided file and create the Data Model for you.
</Callout>

## Creating a new Data Model Manually

There are two additional ways to initialize a new Data Model in your Moose project:

- By creating a new `.ts` or `.py` file in the `/datamodels` directory of your Moose application and defining a new interface or dataclass inside this file.
- By appending a new interface or dataclass to an existing `.ts` or `.py` file in your `/datamodels` directory

Commit message:

Olivia/docs callout fixes (#1743)
* cli, callout ui, next/prev links

* build working

* update moose landing page to point to quickstart

* cta card fix

* nav

* python code blocks in landing docs polish

* fix primitives code

* docs global language switcher!!!

* reformat

* test div

* add components to theme config

* try with cn

* ignore mdx

* header

* updated python blocks

* code block styling overflow

* styling code landing page

* breadcrumb links

* white icon

apps/framework-docs/src/pages/data-models/init-model.mdx, after:

import {
  Callout,
  LanguageSwitcher,
  TypeScript,
  Python,
} from "../../components";

# Initializing a Data Model

<LanguageSwitcher />

## Using the CLI

To create a new Data Model in your Moose application, use the `moose data-model init` command. This will generate a <TypeScript>`.ts`</TypeScript> <Python>`.py`</Python> file in the `/datamodels` directory and define your Data Model within it.

For detailed information about the `moose data-model init` command, you can run the following in your terminal:

<TypeScript>
```bash filename="Terminal" copy 
npx moose-cli data-model init --help 
```
</TypeScript>

<Python>
```bash filename="Terminal" copy 
moose-cli data-model init --help 
```
</Python>

<Callout type="info">
  If you have sample data in a `.json` or `.csv` file, you can use the
  `--sample` flag to specify the path to that file. The CLI will then infer the
  Data Model schema from the provided file and create the Data Model for you.
</Callout>

## Creating a new Data Model Manually

There are two additional ways to initialize a new Data Model in your Moose project:

- By creating a new <TypeScript>`.ts`</TypeScript> <Python>`.py`</Python> file in the `/datamodels` directory of your Moose application and defining a new <TypeScript>interface</TypeScript> <Python>dataclass</Python> inside this file.
- By appending a new interface or dataclass to an existing <TypeScript>`.ts`</TypeScript> <Python>`.py`</Python> file in your `/datamodels` directory
