apps/framework-docs/src/pages/aurora/tool-reference.mdx, before:

# Tool Reference

## Analytics Engineering Agent

### Read your moose project and data

- `read_moose_project`
    - Reads `moose.config.toml` to get configuration details about Moose project and infrastructure.
- `read_file`
    - Gives access to moose primitives in the moose project directory (Workflows, Data Models, Streaming Functions, APIs).
- `read_clickhouse_tables`
    - Read queries from ClickHouse.
- `read_redpanda_topic`
    - Read from Redpanda.

### Interact with your moose project and data

- `create_egress_api`
    - Creates an egress API from Moose ClickHouse. Can utilize type safe parameters.
- `test_egress_api`
    - Tests the specified APIs.

## Experimental Tools

> Note, these are experimental tools, if you want to use them, toggle the experimental features flag with `aurora config tools experimental`
> 
- `write_spec`
    - Generate or update a specification for a data-intensive feature.
- `write_workflow`
    - Write a script for use in Moose Workflows.
- `write_data_model`
    - Generate a Moose data model file and write it to the project's datamodels directory.
- `run_workflow`
    - Runs said scripts.
- `write_stream_function`
    - Generate a Moose stream processing function using an LLM and write it to the project's functions directory.
- `write_and_run_temp_script`
    - Creates and runs a temporary script, usually for sampling purposes.

Commit message:

documenting boreal mcp tools (#2258)
* documenting boreal mcp tools

* good point Copilot

apps/framework-docs/src/pages/aurora/tool-reference.mdx, after:

# Tool Reference

## Standard tools

- `read_moose_project`
    - Reads `moose.config.toml` to get configuration details about Moose project and infrastructure.
- `read_file`
    - Gives access to moose primitives in the moose project directory (Workflows, Data Models, Streaming Functions, APIs).
- `read_clickhouse_tables`
    - Read queries from ClickHouse.
- `read_redpanda_topic`
    - Read from Redpanda.
- `create_egress_api`
    - Creates an egress API from Moose ClickHouse. Can utilize type safe parameters.
- `test_egress_api`
    - Tests the specified APIs.

## Experimental Tools

> Note, these are experimental tools, if you want to use them, toggle the experimental features flag with `aurora config tools experimental`

- `write_spec`
    - Generate or update a specification for a data-intensive feature.
- `write_workflow`
    - Write a script for use in Moose Workflows.
- `write_data_model`
    - Generate a Moose data model file and write it to the project's datamodels directory.
- `run_workflow`
    - Runs said scripts.
- `write_stream_function`
    - Generate a Moose stream processing function using an LLM and write it to the project's functions directory.
- `write_and_run_temp_script`
    - Creates and runs a temporary script, usually for sampling purposes.

## Boreal Experimental Tools

> Note, these are experimental tools, if you want to use them, toggle the experimental features flag with `aurora config tools experimental`

- `read_production_clickhouse`
    - Read your Boreal ClickHouse database. In this iteration, requires manually inputting certain fields into `mcp.json`: `BOREAL_CLICKHOUSE_HOST`, `BOREAL_CLICKHOUSE_PORT`, `BOREAL_CLICKHOUSE_USER`, `BOREAL_CLICKHOUSE_PASSWORD`, `BOREAL_CLICKHOUSE_DATABASE`. Whilst the tool is read only, we suggest furnishing the MCP with read-only credentials in an abundance of caution.
