apps/framework-docs/src/pages/moose/index.mdx, before:

import {
  CTACard,
  CTACards,
  ZoomImg,
  ChipButton,
  Columns,
  Column,
  FeatureCard,
  FeatureGrid,
  BulletPointsCard,
  Callout,
  QnABullets,
  CheckmarkBullets,
  Icons,
} from "@/components";
import { Button } from "@/components/ui";
import { SmallTextEmbed } from "@/components/typography";
import { 
  FolderPlus, 
  Scroll, 
  Code, 
  Terminal,
  Database, 
  Zap, 
  FileCode, 
  Clock, 
  Users, 
  GitBranch, 
  HardDriveDownload, 
  Waves 
} from "lucide-react";
import Link from "next/link";
import { Tabs, Tab } from "nextra/components";
import { paths } from "@/lib/paths";

# Moose

Moose is an open source framework for developing data products & APIs on OLAP/streaming infra using native TypeScript/Python

<div className="flex flex-col md:flex-row gap-4 my-8">
  <Link href={paths.quickstart}>
    <Button variant="default">Quick Start →</Button>
  </Link>
  <Link href="/templates">
    <Button variant="secondary">
      See Examples
    </Button>
  </Link>
</div>

## Core Capabilities

<FeatureGrid>
  <FeatureCard
    href={paths.dataModels}
    Icon={Icons.models}
    title="Type-Safe Data Models"
    description="Define schemas once in TS/Python that can be used to generate data ingestion, storage, and API infrastructure"
  />
  
  <FeatureCard
    href={paths.ingestion}
    Icon={Icons.ingestion}
    title="High-Performance Data Ingestion"
    description="Auto-validated APIs to capture data into OLAP databases with full type safety"
  />
  
  <FeatureCard
    href={paths.streams}
    Icon={Icons.streams}
    title="Real-Time Stream Processing"
    description="Transform events in-flight using your preferred language, not just SQL"
  />
  
  <FeatureCard
    href={paths.materializedViews}
    Icon={Icons.db}
    title="In-Database Transformations"
    description="Create materialized views and transform data directly in your OLAP database with SQL blocks"
  />
  
  <FeatureCard
    href={paths.consumptionApis}
    Icon={Icons.api}
    title="Analytics APIs"
    description="Build and expose fully-typed APIs to consume your processed data"
  />
  
  <FeatureCard
    href={paths.workflows}
    Icon={Icons.workflows}
    title="Workflow Orchestration"
    description="Schedule jobs or trigger on events using simple, language-native workflow definitions"
  />
</FeatureGrid>

---

## Why Moose Exists
<BulletPointsCard
  title="Building Software With Today's Data Stack is Slow"
  bullets={[
    {
      title: "Tool fragmentation",
      description: "More time spent integrating Kafka, ClickHouse, Postgres, dbt, Airflow, and a dozen other services instead of building your actual application",
    },
    {
      title: "Schema drift everywhere",
      description: "Your TypeScript or Python models, database schemas, API validation, and message formats all diverge over time",
    },
    {
      title: "Painful development workflow",
      description: "No local testing, long deployment cycles, and constant context switching",
    },
    {
      title: "SQL-only processing",
      description: "Having to use SQL for everything when you'd rather use languages you're already comfortable with",
    },
  ]}
/>

### The DIY Data Stack Approach

<BulletPointsCard
  bulletStyle="number"
  divider={false}
  title="What if you need to add a simple string field to your data model?"
  bullets={[
    {
      title: "Update your TS/Python Code Model",
    },
    {
      title: "Update your Database Schema",
    },
    {
      title: "Update your Kafka Topic",
    },
    {
      title: "Update your Runtime Validation",
    },
    {
      title: "Update your transformations & queries",
    },
  ]}
/>


_Can you see the problem? This process repeats for **every change**._

You also have to test that everything is working together in a safe, isolated dev environment, which is even more painful with so many moving parts.

### What Moose Does
With Moose, your TypeScript and Python code is the single source of truth for **both your data application logic AND your data infrastructure**:

```ts
// Define your model ONCE
import { Key, IngestPipeline } from "@514labs/moose-lib";

interface ExampleModel {
  primaryKey: Key<string>;
  name: string;
  nested: {
    isActive: boolean;
    value: number;
    internalName: string;
  }[];
  createdAt: Date;
}

// And use it EVERYWHERE - ONE line to wire everything up
export const examplePipeline = new IngestPipeline<ExampleModel>("example", {
  ingest: true,    // Creates API endpoint with validation
  stream: true,    // Creates properly structured Redpanda topic
  table: true      // Creates ClickHouse database table
});
```

<BulletPointsCard
  bulletStyle="check"
  divider={false}
  title="You get end-to-end infrastructure for your data pipeline that is:"
  bullets={[
    {
      title: "Defined purely in TypeScript or Python code",
    },
    {
      title: "Completely type safe and validated",
    },
    {
      title: "Boilerplate free",
    },
    {
      title: "Able to catch errors at dev time, not at runtime",
    },
  ]}
/>

<BulletPointsCard
  bulletStyle="x"
  divider={false}
  title="No More Context Switching"
  bullets={[
    {
      title: "“Does my Database table use snake_case or camelCase?”",
    },
    {
      title: "“Did I add the new field to both the model AND the table?”",
    },
    {
      title: "“Which database field was nullable again?”",
    },
  ]}
/>

### Local Dev in Seconds

<BulletPointsCard
title="Local Dev Benefits"
bullets={[
{
title: "One-command startup",
description: "Launch your entire data infrastructure locally with a single command",
},
{
title: "Zero configuration",
description: "All components come pre-configured and fully integrated - no setup required",
},
{
title: "Production parity",
description: "Use the same technologies and logic that will run in production",
},
{
title: "Real-time feedback",
description: "See your changes reflected instantly throughout the stack",
}
]}
/>

Moose comes with a pre-configured and fully integrated data stack that runs entirely on your laptop. Spin it up with one command:
```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose dev
```
All the infrastructure is automatically spun up:
```txt
⡏ Starting local infrastructure
  Successfully started containers
     Validated clickhousedb-1 docker container
     Validated redpanda-1 docker container
  Successfully validated red panda cluster
     Validated temporal docker container
  Successfully ran local infrastructure
```

<BulletPointsCard
  divider={false}
  title="Common workflow scenarios"
  bullets={[
    {
      title: "Need to add or change a model?",
      description: "Moose hot reloads it to your local infrastructure when you save",
    },
    {
      title: "Added a new field?",
      description: "It's instantly available in your API, streams, and database",
    },
    {
      title: "Need to test your pipeline?",
      description: "Send sample data to your local ingest API and see the data flow through",
    }
  ]}
/>

#### Hot Reloading Dev Workflow in Action
Make a change to your model:

```ts filename="HotReload.ts" {11} copy
// Add a field to your model
interface ExampleModel {
  primaryKey: Key<string>;
  name: string;
  nested: {
    isActive: boolean;
    value: number;
    internalName: string;
  }[];
  createdAt: Date;
  status: string; // New field
}
```

Hit save and youll see your changes hot reloaded to your local infrastructure:
```txt {3}
⢹ Processing Infrastructure changes from file watcher
             ~ Topic: orders - Version: 0.0 - Retention Period: 604800s - Partition Count: 1
             ~ Table orders with column changes: [Added(Column { name: "status", data_type: String, required: true, unique: false, primary_key: false, default: None })] and order by changes: OrderByChange { before: [], after: [] }
             ~ Topic to Table Sync Process: orders_0_0 -> orders
             ~ API Endpoint: orders - Version: 0.0 - Path: ingest/orders - Method: POST - Format: Some(Json)
```

<BulletPointsCard
  bulletStyle="check"
  divider={false}
  title="That's it! No additional steps needed."
  bullets={[
    {
      title: "Your API now validates this field",
    },
    {
      title: "Your database schema is updated",
    },
    {
      title: "Your streams carry the new field",
    },
  ]}
/>

---
### Modularity

Moose is designed to be modular and configurable. You can pick and choose which components you need and configure them to your liking.
<BulletPointsCard
  bulletStyle="check"
  divider={false}
  title="Default Moose Stack:"
  bullets={[
    {
      title: "ClickHouse",
      description: "OLAP database (always enabled)"
    },
    {
      title: "Redpanda",
      description: "Kafka-compatible event streaming platform (can be disabled)"
    },
    {
      title: "Temporal",
      description: "Workflow orchestration (can be disabled)"
    }
  ]}
/>

<Callout type="info" title="Learn how to enable/disable components in your stack">
  [Review the Architecture Documentation](/moose/getting-started/architecture) for more details.
</Callout>

<BulletPointsCard
  divider={false}
  title="Planned Extensions:"
  bullets={[
    {
      title: "Snowflake, Databricks, and BigQuery",  
      description: "Cloud-native data warehouses"
    },
    {
      title: "Kafka, Kinesis, and Pulsar",
      description: "Kafka-compatible event streaming platforms"
    }
  ]}
/>

[Let us know](https://calendly.com/d/cmh5-nrj-9nc/talk-to-engineering) if you'd like to see support for specific platforms in your stack.

---

## What Can You Build with Moose?

Moose is ideal for a wide range of data-intensive applications, from real-time analytics to complex data pipelines:

<div className="my-6 grid grid-cols-1 md:grid-cols-2 lg:grid-cols-3 gap-4">
  <div className="p-5 border border-border rounded-lg bg-muted/30">
    <p className="font-medium text-primary mb-2">User Facing Analytics</p>
    <p className="text-muted-foreground text-sm">Embed leaderboards, charts, metrics, and other real-time features in your web or mobile apps</p>
  </div>
  <div className="p-5 border border-border rounded-lg bg-muted/30">
    <p className="font-medium text-primary mb-2">BI and Data Warehouses</p>
    <p className="text-muted-foreground text-sm">Collect disparate data sources into an analytical database, produce custom reports, and more</p>
  </div>
  <div className="p-5 border border-border rounded-lg bg-muted/30">
    <p className="font-medium text-primary mb-2">Data Migrations</p>
    <p className="text-muted-foreground text-sm">One-time migration of data from legacy systems to a modern data backend</p>
  </div>
  <div className="p-5 border border-border rounded-lg bg-muted/30">
    <p className="font-medium text-primary mb-2">Event Streaming</p>
    <p className="text-muted-foreground text-sm">Real-time processing of events from Kafka, Redpanda, or other event streaming platforms</p>
  </div>
  <div className="p-5 border border-border rounded-lg bg-muted/30">
    <p className="font-medium text-primary mb-2">ETL Workloads</p>
    <p className="text-muted-foreground text-sm">Repeated batch jobs to collect data from different sources and load them into an analytics environment</p>
  </div>
</div>

---

## Community

<CTACards>
  <CTACard
    title="GitHub"
    description="Star, check out the code, and contribute to Moose on GitHub"
    ctaLink="https://github.com/514-labs/moose"
    ctaLabel="GitHub"
    Icon={Icons.github}
  />
  <CTACard
    title="Talk to the Moose Maintainers"
    description="We're always looking to improve Moose and would love to hear from you!"
    ctaLink="https://cal.com/team/514/talk-to-eng"
    ctaLabel="Talk to the Team"
    Icon={Icons.contact}
  />
</CTACards>

Commit message:

docs intro what is moose

apps/framework-docs/src/pages/moose/index.mdx, after:

import {
  CTACard,
  CTACards,
  ZoomImg,
  ChipButton,
  Columns,
  Column,
  FeatureCard,
  FeatureGrid,
  BulletPointsCard,
  Callout,
  QnABullets,
  CheckmarkBullets,
  Icons,
} from "@/components";
import { Button } from "@/components/ui";
import { SmallTextEmbed } from "@/components/typography";
import { 
  FolderPlus, 
  Scroll, 
  Code, 
  Terminal,
  Database, 
  Zap, 
  FileCode, 
  Clock, 
  Users, 
  GitBranch, 
  HardDriveDownload, 
  Waves 
} from "lucide-react";
import Link from "next/link";
import { Tabs, Tab } from "nextra/components";
import { paths } from "@/lib/paths";

# Moose

## What is Moose?

Moose is an open source framework for building analytical backends—to power user-facing or operational analytics—using 
native TypeScript/Python.

You use Moose's TS/Py primitives to define the core components of your analytical backend: including data models, 
transformations, and API endpoints. These primitives become reusable and type-safe across your entire full stack application.

Under the hood, Moose implements your components by abstracting, configuring, and orchestrating your OLAP and streaming infrastructure. 
This allows you to focus on the unique and interesting parts of your analytical app, instead of spending time on integration 
and boilerplate. 

At the infrastructure level, Moose currently supports a best-in-class open source analytical stack, including Clickhouse (realtime 
OLAP database), RedPanda (streaming), and Temporal (orchstration).

<div className="flex flex-col md:flex-row gap-4 my-8">
  <Link href={paths.quickstart}>
    <Button variant="default">Quick Start →</Button>
  </Link>
  <Link href="/templates">
    <Button variant="secondary">
      See Examples
    </Button>
  </Link>
</div>

## Core Capabilities

<FeatureGrid>
  <FeatureCard
    href={paths.dataModels}
    Icon={Icons.models}
    title="Type-Safe Data Models"
    description="Define schemas once in TS/Python that can be used to generate data ingestion, storage, and API infrastructure"
  />
  
  <FeatureCard
    href={paths.ingestion}
    Icon={Icons.ingestion}
    title="High-Performance Data Ingestion"
    description="Auto-validated APIs to capture data into OLAP databases with full type safety"
  />
  
  <FeatureCard
    href={paths.streams}
    Icon={Icons.streams}
    title="Real-Time Stream Processing"
    description="Transform events in-flight using your preferred language, not just SQL"
  />
  
  <FeatureCard
    href={paths.materializedViews}
    Icon={Icons.db}
    title="In-Database Transformations"
    description="Create materialized views and transform data directly in your OLAP database with SQL blocks"
  />
  
  <FeatureCard
    href={paths.consumptionApis}
    Icon={Icons.api}
    title="Analytics APIs"
    description="Build and expose fully-typed APIs to consume your processed data"
  />
  
  <FeatureCard
    href={paths.workflows}
    Icon={Icons.workflows}
    title="Workflow Orchestration"
    description="Schedule jobs or trigger on events using simple, language-native workflow definitions"
  />
</FeatureGrid>

---

## Why Moose Exists
<BulletPointsCard
  title="Building Software With Today's Data Stack is Slow"
  bullets={[
    {
      title: "Tool fragmentation",
      description: "More time spent integrating Kafka, ClickHouse, Postgres, dbt, Airflow, and a dozen other services instead of building your actual application",
    },
    {
      title: "Schema drift everywhere",
      description: "Your TypeScript or Python models, database schemas, API validation, and message formats all diverge over time",
    },
    {
      title: "Painful development workflow",
      description: "No local testing, long deployment cycles, and constant context switching",
    },
    {
      title: "SQL-only processing",
      description: "Having to use SQL for everything when you'd rather use languages you're already comfortable with",
    },
  ]}
/>

### The DIY Data Stack Approach

<BulletPointsCard
  bulletStyle="number"
  divider={false}
  title="What if you need to add a simple string field to your data model?"
  bullets={[
    {
      title: "Update your TS/Python Code Model",
    },
    {
      title: "Update your Database Schema",
    },
    {
      title: "Update your Kafka Topic",
    },
    {
      title: "Update your Runtime Validation",
    },
    {
      title: "Update your transformations & queries",
    },
  ]}
/>


_Can you see the problem? This process repeats for **every change**._

You also have to test that everything is working together in a safe, isolated dev environment, which is even more painful with so many moving parts.

### What Moose Does
With Moose, your TypeScript and Python code is the single source of truth for **both your data application logic AND your data infrastructure**:

```ts
// Define your model ONCE
import { Key, IngestPipeline } from "@514labs/moose-lib";

interface ExampleModel {
  primaryKey: Key<string>;
  name: string;
  nested: {
    isActive: boolean;
    value: number;
    internalName: string;
  }[];
  createdAt: Date;
}

// And use it EVERYWHERE - ONE line to wire everything up
export const examplePipeline = new IngestPipeline<ExampleModel>("example", {
  ingest: true,    // Creates API endpoint with validation
  stream: true,    // Creates properly structured Redpanda topic
  table: true      // Creates ClickHouse database table
});
```

<BulletPointsCard
  bulletStyle="check"
  divider={false}
  title="You get end-to-end infrastructure for your data pipeline that is:"
  bullets={[
    {
      title: "Defined purely in TypeScript or Python code",
    },
    {
      title: "Completely type safe and validated",
    },
    {
      title: "Boilerplate free",
    },
    {
      title: "Able to catch errors at dev time, not at runtime",
    },
  ]}
/>

<BulletPointsCard
  bulletStyle="x"
  divider={false}
  title="No More Context Switching"
  bullets={[
    {
      title: "“Does my Database table use snake_case or camelCase?”",
    },
    {
      title: "“Did I add the new field to both the model AND the table?”",
    },
    {
      title: "“Which database field was nullable again?”",
    },
  ]}
/>

### Local Dev in Seconds

<BulletPointsCard
title="Local Dev Benefits"
bullets={[
{
title: "One-command startup",
description: "Launch your entire data infrastructure locally with a single command",
},
{
title: "Zero configuration",
description: "All components come pre-configured and fully integrated - no setup required",
},
{
title: "Production parity",
description: "Use the same technologies and logic that will run in production",
},
{
title: "Real-time feedback",
description: "See your changes reflected instantly throughout the stack",
}
]}
/>

Moose comes with a pre-configured and fully integrated data stack that runs entirely on your laptop. Spin it up with one command:
```bash filename="Terminal" copy
moose dev
```
All the infrastructure is automatically spun up:
```txt
⡏ Starting local infrastructure
  Successfully started containers
     Validated clickhousedb-1 docker container
     Validated redpanda-1 docker container
  Successfully validated red panda cluster
     Validated temporal docker container
  Successfully ran local infrastructure
```

<BulletPointsCard
  divider={false}
  title="Common workflow scenarios"
  bullets={[
    {
      title: "Need to add or change a model?",
      description: "Moose hot reloads it to your local infrastructure when you save",
    },
    {
      title: "Added a new field?",
      description: "It's instantly available in your API, streams, and database",
    },
    {
      title: "Need to test your pipeline?",
      description: "Send sample data to your local ingest API and see the data flow through",
    }
  ]}
/>

#### Hot Reloading Dev Workflow in Action
Make a change to your model:

```ts filename="HotReload.ts" {11} copy
// Add a field to your model
interface ExampleModel {
  primaryKey: Key<string>;
  name: string;
  nested: {
    isActive: boolean;
    value: number;
    internalName: string;
  }[];
  createdAt: Date;
  status: string; // New field
}
```

Hit save and youll see your changes hot reloaded to your local infrastructure:
```txt {3}
⢹ Processing Infrastructure changes from file watcher
             ~ Topic: orders - Version: 0.0 - Retention Period: 604800s - Partition Count: 1
             ~ Table orders with column changes: [Added(Column { name: "status", data_type: String, required: true, unique: false, primary_key: false, default: None })] and order by changes: OrderByChange { before: [], after: [] }
             ~ Topic to Table Sync Process: orders_0_0 -> orders
             ~ API Endpoint: orders - Version: 0.0 - Path: ingest/orders - Method: POST - Format: Some(Json)
```

<BulletPointsCard
  bulletStyle="check"
  divider={false}
  title="That's it! No additional steps needed."
  bullets={[
    {
      title: "Your API now validates this field",
    },
    {
      title: "Your database schema is updated",
    },
    {
      title: "Your streams carry the new field",
    },
  ]}
/>

---
### Modularity

Moose is designed to be modular and configurable. You can pick and choose which components you need and configure them to your liking.
<BulletPointsCard
  bulletStyle="check"
  divider={false}
  title="Default Moose Stack:"
  bullets={[
    {
      title: "ClickHouse",
      description: "OLAP database (always enabled)"
    },
    {
      title: "Redpanda",
      description: "Kafka-compatible event streaming platform (can be disabled)"
    },
    {
      title: "Temporal",
      description: "Workflow orchestration (can be disabled)"
    }
  ]}
/>

<Callout type="info" title="Learn how to enable/disable components in your stack">
  [Review the Architecture Documentation](/moose/getting-started/architecture) for more details.
</Callout>

<BulletPointsCard
  divider={false}
  title="Planned Extensions:"
  bullets={[
    {
      title: "Snowflake, Databricks, and BigQuery",  
      description: "Cloud-native data warehouses"
    },
    {
      title: "Kafka, Kinesis, and Pulsar",
      description: "Kafka-compatible event streaming platforms"
    }
  ]}
/>

[Let us know](https://calendly.com/d/cmh5-nrj-9nc/talk-to-engineering) if you'd like to see support for specific platforms in your stack.

---

## What Can You Build with Moose?

Moose is ideal for a wide range of data-intensive applications, from real-time analytics to complex data pipelines:

<div className="my-6 grid grid-cols-1 md:grid-cols-2 lg:grid-cols-3 gap-4">
  <div className="p-5 border border-border rounded-lg bg-muted/30">
    <p className="font-medium text-primary mb-2">User Facing Analytics</p>
    <p className="text-muted-foreground text-sm">Embed leaderboards, charts, metrics, and other real-time features in your web or mobile apps</p>
  </div>
  <div className="p-5 border border-border rounded-lg bg-muted/30">
    <p className="font-medium text-primary mb-2">BI and Data Warehouses</p>
    <p className="text-muted-foreground text-sm">Collect disparate data sources into an analytical database, produce custom reports, and more</p>
  </div>
  <div className="p-5 border border-border rounded-lg bg-muted/30">
    <p className="font-medium text-primary mb-2">Data Migrations</p>
    <p className="text-muted-foreground text-sm">One-time migration of data from legacy systems to a modern data backend</p>
  </div>
  <div className="p-5 border border-border rounded-lg bg-muted/30">
    <p className="font-medium text-primary mb-2">Event Streaming</p>
    <p className="text-muted-foreground text-sm">Real-time processing of events from Kafka, Redpanda, or other event streaming platforms</p>
  </div>
  <div className="p-5 border border-border rounded-lg bg-muted/30">
    <p className="font-medium text-primary mb-2">ETL Workloads</p>
    <p className="text-muted-foreground text-sm">Repeated batch jobs to collect data from different sources and load them into an analytics environment</p>
  </div>
</div>

---

## Community

<CTACards>
  <CTACard
    title="GitHub"
    description="Star, check out the code, and contribute to Moose on GitHub"
    ctaLink="https://github.com/514-labs/moose"
    ctaLabel="GitHub"
    Icon={Icons.github}
  />
  <CTACard
    title="Talk to the Moose Maintainers"
    description="We're always looking to improve Moose and would love to hear from you!"
    ctaLink="https://cal.com/team/514/talk-to-eng"
    ctaLabel="Talk to the Team"
    Icon={Icons.contact}
  />
</CTACards>
