apps/framework-docs/src/pages/moose/building/data-modeling.mdx, before:

import { Callout, LanguageSwitcher, TypeScript, Python, FeatureCard, FeatureGrid, CheckmarkBullets, BulletPointsCard } from "@/components";
import { FileTree, Tabs } from "nextra/components";

# Data Modeling
<LanguageSwitcher />

## Overview

Data models in Moose are type definitions that generate your data infrastructure. You write them as <TypeScript inline>TypeScript interfaces</TypeScript><Python inline>Pydantic models</Python>, export them from your app's root <TypeScript inline>index.ts</TypeScript><Python inline>main.py</Python> file, and Moose creates the corresponding database tables, APIs, and streams from your code.


<BulletPointsCard
  title="Working with Data Models"
  bullets={[
    {
      title: "Define your schema",
      description: "Create a type definition with typed fields and a primary key using your language's type system"
    },
    {
      title: "Create infrastructure",
      description: "Use your model as a type parameter to create tables, APIs, streams, or views"
    },
    {
      title: "Export from root",
      description: "Export all models and infrastructure from your app's root file (index.ts/main.py) - Moose reads these exports to generate infrastructure"
    },
    {
      title: "Run dev server",
      description: "When you create or modify data models, Moose automatically creates or updates all dependent infrastructure components with your latest code changes."
    }
  ]}
/>

### Quick Start
<TypeScript>
```ts filename="app/index.ts" copy
// 1. Define your schema (WHAT your data looks like)
interface MyDataModel {
  primaryKey: Key<string>;
  someString: string;
  someNumber: number;
  someDate: Date;
}

// 2. YOU control which infrastructure to create (HOW to handle your data)
const pipeline = new IngestPipeline<MyDataModel>("MyDataPipeline", {
  ingest: true,    // Optional: Create API endpoint
  stream: true,    // Optional: Create topic
  table: {         // Optional: Create and configure table
    orderByFields: ["primaryKey", "someDate"],
    deduplicate: true
  }
});
```
</TypeScript>
<Python>
```python filename="app/main.py"
# 1. Define your schema (WHAT your data looks like)
class MyFirstDataModel(BaseModel):
    id: Key[str] = Field(..., description="Primary key")
    some_string: str
    some_number: int
    some_boolean: bool
    some_date: datetime


# 2. YOU control which infrastructure to create (HOW to handle your data)
my_first_pipeline = IngestPipeline[MyFirstDataModel]("my_first_pipeline", IngestPipelineConfig(
    ingest=True,  // Create API endpoint
    stream=True,  // Create stream topic
    table=True    // Create database table
))
```
</Python>

<BulletPointsCard
  divider={false}
  bulletStyle="check"
  title="Benefits:"
  bullets={[
    "End-to-end type safety across your code and infrastructure",
    "Full control over your infrastructure with code",
    "Zero schema drift - change your types in one place, automatically update your infrastructure"
  ]}
/>

## Schema Definition

<Callout type="info" title="The WHAT">
  This section covers how to define your data models - the structure and types of your data.
</Callout>

### Basic Types

<TypeScript>
```typescript filename="app/datamodels/BasicDataModel.ts"
import { Key } from "@514labs/moose-lib";

export interface BasicDataModel {
  // Required: Primary key for your data model
  primaryKey: Key<string>;    // string key
  // or
  numericKey: Key<number>;    // numeric key

  // Common types
  someString: string;         // Text
  someNumber: number;         // Numbers
  someBoolean: boolean;       // Boolean
  someDate: Date;             // Timestamps
  someArray: string[];        // Arrays
  someObject: object;         // Objects
  someInteger: number & tags.Type<"int64">; // Integer type possible with specific tags
  
  // Nullable fields
  nullableField?: string;  // Optional field
  nullableField2?: string | null;  // Union type

}
```
</TypeScript>

<Python>
You use Pydantic to define your schemas:

```python filename="app/datamodels/BasicDataModel.py"
from moose_lib import Key
from datetime import datetime
from typing import List, Optional
from pydantic import BaseModel, Field

class BasicDataModel(BaseModel):
    # Required: Primary key for your data model
    primary_key: Key[str]
    # or
    numeric_key: Key[int]
    
    # Common types
    some_string: str             # Text
    some_number: int             # Numbers
    some_boolean: bool           # Boolean
    some_date: datetime          # Timestamps
    some_array: List[str]        # Arrays
    
    # Optional fields
    optional_field: Optional[str] = None  # May not be present in all records
```
</Python>

### Advanced Schema Patterns

#### Nested Objects

<TypeScript>
```typescript filename="app/datamodels/NestedDataModel.ts"
import { Key } from "@514labs/moose-lib";

// Define nested object separately
interface NestedObject {
  nestedNumber: number;
  nestedBoolean: boolean;
  nestedArray: number[];
}

export interface DataModelWithNested {
  primaryKey: Key<string>;
  
  // Reference nested object
  nestedData: NestedObject;

  // Or define inline
  inlineNested: {
    someValue: string;
    someOtherValue: number;
  };
}
```
</TypeScript>

<Python>
```python filename="app/datamodels/NestedDataModel.py"
from moose_lib import Key
from typing import List
from pydantic import BaseModel, Field

class NestedObject(BaseModel):
    nested_number: int
    nested_boolean: bool
    nested_array: List[int]

class DataModelWithNested(BaseModel):
    primary_key: Key[str]
    nested_data: NestedObject
```
</Python>

#### Using Enums

<TypeScript>
```typescript filename="app/datamodels/EnumDataModel.ts"
import { Key } from "@514labs/moose-lib";

enum OrderStatus {
  PENDING = "pending",
  PROCESSING = "processing",
  COMPLETED = "completed"
}

export interface Order {
  orderId: Key<string>;
  status: OrderStatus;  // Type-safe status values
  createdAt: Date;
}
```
</TypeScript>

<Python>
```python filename="app/datamodels/EnumDataModel.py"
from enum import Enum
from moose_lib import Key
from datetime import datetime
from pydantic import BaseModel

class OrderStatus(str, Enum):
    PENDING = "pending"
    PROCESSING = "processing"
    COMPLETED = "completed"

class Order(BaseModel):
    order_id: Key[str]
    status: OrderStatus  # Type-safe status values
    created_at: datetime
```
</Python>

### Type Mapping

<TypeScript>
| TypeScript | ClickHouse | Description |
|------------|------------|-------------|
| `string` | String | Text values |
| `number` | Float64 | Numeric values |
| `number & tags.Type<"int64">` | Int64 | Integer values |
| `boolean` | Boolean | True/false values |
| `Date` | DateTime | Timestamp values |
| `Array` | Array | Lists of values |
| `object` | Nested | Nested structures |
| `Enum` | Enum | Enumerated values |
</TypeScript>

<Python>
| Python | ClickHouse | Description |
|--------|------------|-------------|
| `str` | String | Text values |
| `int` | Int64 | Integer values |
| `float` | Float64 | Decimal values |
| `bool` | Boolean | True/false values |
| `datetime` | DateTime | Timestamp values |
| `List[T]` | Array | Lists of values |
| `Enum` | Enum | Enumerated values |
| `Optional[T]` | Nullable | Values may be present or not |
| `Any` | JSON | Any value, use with caution |

</Python>

### Data Modeling Dos and Don'ts

<TypeScript>
Do not use `any` or `unknown` types:
```typescript filename="app/datamodels/AnyFields.ts"
interface BadDataModel {
  unknownField: unknown;
  // or
  anyField: any;
}
```
</TypeScript>


Do not use union types for flexible fields:

<TypeScript>
```ts filename="app/datamodels/FlexibleFields.ts"
// DO NOT -> Use union types for conditional fields
interface BadDataModel {
  conditionalField: string | number;
}

// DO -> break out into multiple optional fields
interface GoodDataModel {
  conditionalString?: string; // Optional field
  conditionalNumber?: number; // Optional field
}
```
</TypeScript>

<Python>
```python filename="app/datamodels/FlexibleFields.py"

# DO NOT -> Use union types for flexible fields
class BadDataModel(BaseModel):
    flexible_field: Union[str, int]

# DO -> Use Any type for flexible fields
class FlexibleDataModel(BaseModel):
    flexible_field: Any ## Maps to JSON type in ClickHouse
```
</Python>

Do not use union types for nullable fields:

<TypeScript>
```typescript filename="app/datamodels/NullableFields.ts"
// DO NOT -> Use union types for nullable fields
interface BadDataModel {
  nullableField: string | null;
}

// DO -> Use Optional type
interface GoodDataModel { 
  nullableField?: string;
}
```
</TypeScript>

<Python>
```python filename="app/datamodels/NullableFields.py"

# DO NOT -> Use union types for nullable fields
class BadDataModel(BaseModel):
    nullable_field: Union[str, None]

# DO -> Use Optional type
class GoodDataModel(BaseModel):
    nullable_field: Optional[str]
```
</Python>

<Python>
Do not use `dict` types:
```python filename="app/datamodels/DictFields.py"

# DO NOT -> Use dict types
class BadDataModel(BaseModel):
    dict_field: Dict[str, Any]

class NestedObject(BaseModel):
    nested_field: str

# DO -> Use Nested type
class GoodDataModel(BaseModel):
    dict_field: NestedObject
```
</Python>


## Infrastructure Configuration

<Callout type="info" title="The HOW">
  This section covers how to apply your data models to infrastructure components.
</Callout>

### Getting Data Into Your Database

#### `IngestPipeline`
The most common pattern - combines ingestion, streaming, and storage into a single component:

<TypeScript>
```ts filename="app/index.ts"
import { IngestPipeline } from "@514labs/moose-lib";

const myPipeline = new IngestPipeline<MyDataModel>("my_pipeline", {
    ingest: true,
    stream: true,
    table: true
});
```
</TypeScript>

<Python>
```python filename="app/index.py"
from moose_lib import IngestPipeline, IngestPipelineConfig

my_pipeline = IngestPipeline[MyDataModel]("my_pipeline", IngestPipelineConfig(
    ingest=True,
    stream=True,
    table=True
))
```
</Python>

<BulletPointsCard
  divider={false}
  bulletStyle="check"
  title="What gets created?"
  bullets={[
    "An HTTP POST endpoint that accepts and validates incoming data against your data model",
    "A typed Redpanda topic that buffers validated data from the ingest API",
    "A ClickHouse table with the same schema as your data model",
    "A Rust process that syncs data from the stream to the table"
  ]}
/>
#### Standalone Components
If you don't need all the components, you can create them individually and wire them together yourself:

##### `OlapTable`
    Creates a ClickHouse table with the same schema as your data model:
    <TypeScript>
    ```typescript filename="app/index.ts"
    import { OlapTable } from "@514labs/moose-lib";
    
    // Basic table
    const myTable = new OlapTable<MyDataModel>("TableName");
    ```
    </TypeScript>
    
    <Python>
    ```python filename="app/index.py"
    from moose_lib import OlapTable
    
    # Basic table
    my_table = OlapTable[MyDataModel]("TableName")
    ```
    </Python>

    <Callout type="info" title="Olap Tables">
      You might use an OlapTable if you do not need streaming ingest capabilities for your data.
      [Learn more about Olap Tables](/moose/building/olap-table)
    </Callout>
  
##### `Stream`
Creates a Redpanda topic that can be configured to sync data to a ClickHouse table with the same schema:
<TypeScript>
```typescript filename="app/index.ts"
import { Stream } from "@514labs/moose-lib";

// Basic stream
const myStream = new Stream<MyDataModel>("TopicName");
```
</TypeScript>

<Python>
```python filename="app/index.py"
from moose_lib import Stream

# Basic stream
my_stream = Stream[MyDataModel]("TopicName")
```
</Python>

<Callout type="info" title="Streams">
  Standalone streams may make sense if you want to transform data on the fly before it is written to the table. [Learn more about stream processing](/moose/building/streams)
</Callout>
  
##### `IngestAPI`
<TypeScript>
```typescript filename="app/index.ts"
import { IngestAPI } from "@514labs/moose-lib";

const myIngestAPI = new IngestAPI<MyDataModel>("api-route-name");
```
</TypeScript>

<Python>
```python filename="app/index.py"
from moose_lib import IngestAPI

my_ingest_api = IngestAPI[MyDataModel]("api-route-name")
```
</Python>
<Callout type="info" title="Ingest APIs">
  Ingest APIs are almost always preferred as part of an `IngestPipeline` instead of being used standalone. [Learn more about Ingestion APIs](/moose/building/ingestion)
</Callout>

### Getting Data Out of Your Database
Data models also power your downstream data processing workflows after data is stored, enabling you to create materialized views and typed APIs that prepare and expose your data for consumption:

#### `MaterializedView`
Materialized views are a way to pre-compute and store the results of complex queries on your data. This allows you to query the materialized view directly for faster results, or use it as the source for another derived table for cascading transformations:
<TypeScript>
```typescript filename="app/index.ts"
import { MaterializedView } from "@514labs/moose-lib";

const myMaterializedView = new MaterializedView<MyDataModel>({
  selectStatement: sql`SELECT * FROM my_table`,
  tableName: "my_table",
  materializedViewName: "my_materialized_view"
});
```
</TypeScript>

<Python>
```python filename="app/index.py"
from moose_lib import MaterializedView

my_materialized_view = MaterializedView[MyDataModel](
  select_statement="SELECT * FROM my_table",
  table_name="my_table",
  materialized_view_name="my_materialized_view"
)
```
</Python>
<Callout type="info" title="Materialized Views">
  [Learn more about Materialized Views](/moose/building/materialized-views)
</Callout>

#### `ConsumptionAPI`
Consumption APIs are a way to expose your data to external consumers. They are typed and validateagainst your data models, ensuring that the client request parameters and response types are correct at runtime:

<TypeScript>
```ts filename="app/index.ts"
import { ConsumptionAPI } from "@514labs/moose-lib";

const myConsumptionAPI = new ConsumptionAPI<RequestDataModel, ResponseDataModel>("MyConsumptionAPI"async({request: RequestDataModel}, {client, sql}) => {
      // Do something with the request
  return new ResponseDataModel();
});
```
</TypeScript>

<Python>
```python filename="app/index.py"
from moose_lib import ConsumptionAPI

def handle(request: RequestDataModel) -> ResponseDataModel:
    # Do something with the request
    return ResponseDataModel()

my_consumption_api = ConsumptionAPI[RequestDataModel, ResponseDataModel]("api_route_name"query_function=handle)
    ```
</Python>
<Callout type="info" title="Consumption APIs">
  [Learn more about Consumption APIs](/moose/building/consumption-apis)
</Callout>

## Next Steps

<FeatureGrid columns={3}>
  <FeatureCard
    href="/moose/streams"
    title="Streaming Deep Dive"
    description="Learn how to process, transform, and manage data streams in real-time."
  />
  <FeatureCard
    href="/moose/olap-table"
    title="Working with Tables"
    description="Discover how to optimize storage, querying, and analytics with OLAP tables."
  />
  <FeatureCard
    href="/moose/ingestion"
    title="Ingesting Data"
    description="Explore how to efficiently ingest data with automatic schema validation."
  />
</FeatureGrid>

Commit message:

ref to type validation in dm

apps/framework-docs/src/pages/moose/building/data-modeling.mdx, after:

import { Callout, LanguageSwitcher, TypeScript, Python, FeatureCard, FeatureGrid, CheckmarkBullets, BulletPointsCard } from "@/components";
import { FileTree, Tabs } from "nextra/components";

# Data Modeling
<LanguageSwitcher />

## Overview

Data models in Moose are type definitions that generate your data infrastructure. You write them as <TypeScript inline>TypeScript interfaces</TypeScript><Python inline>Pydantic models</Python>, export them from your app's root <TypeScript inline>index.ts</TypeScript><Python inline>main.py</Python> file, and Moose creates the corresponding database tables, APIs, and streams from your code.


<BulletPointsCard
  title="Working with Data Models"
  bullets={[
    {
      title: "Define your schema",
      description: "Create a type definition with typed fields and a primary key using your language's type system"
    },
    {
      title: "Create infrastructure",
      description: "Use your model as a type parameter to create tables, APIs, streams, or views"
    },
    {
      title: "Export from root",
      description: "Export all models and infrastructure from your app's root file (index.ts/main.py) - Moose reads these exports to generate infrastructure"
    },
    {
      title: "Run dev server",
      description: "When you create or modify data models, Moose automatically creates or updates all dependent infrastructure components with your latest code changes."
    }
  ]}
/>

### Quick Start
<TypeScript>
```ts filename="app/index.ts" copy
// 1. Define your schema (WHAT your data looks like)
interface MyDataModel {
  primaryKey: Key<string>;
  someString: string;
  someNumber: number;
  someDate: Date;
}

// 2. YOU control which infrastructure to create (HOW to handle your data)
const pipeline = new IngestPipeline<MyDataModel>("MyDataPipeline", {
  ingest: true,    // Optional: Create API endpoint
  stream: true,    // Optional: Create topic
  table: {         // Optional: Create and configure table
    orderByFields: ["primaryKey", "someDate"],
    deduplicate: true
  }
});
```
</TypeScript>
<Python>
```python filename="app/main.py"
# 1. Define your schema (WHAT your data looks like)
class MyFirstDataModel(BaseModel):
    id: Key[str] = Field(..., description="Primary key")
    some_string: str
    some_number: int
    some_boolean: bool
    some_date: datetime


# 2. YOU control which infrastructure to create (HOW to handle your data)
my_first_pipeline = IngestPipeline[MyFirstDataModel]("my_first_pipeline", IngestPipelineConfig(
    ingest=True,  // Create API endpoint
    stream=True,  // Create stream topic
    table=True    // Create database table
))
```
</Python>

<BulletPointsCard
  divider={false}
  bulletStyle="check"
  title="Benefits:"
  bullets={[
    "End-to-end type safety across your code and infrastructure",
    "Full control over your infrastructure with code",
    "Zero schema drift - change your types in one place, automatically update your infrastructure"
  ]}
/>

## Schema Definition

<Callout type="info" title="The WHAT">
  This section covers how to define your data models - the structure and types of your data.
</Callout>

### Basic Types

<TypeScript>
```typescript filename="app/datamodels/BasicDataModel.ts"
import { Key } from "@514labs/moose-lib";

export interface BasicDataModel {
  // Required: Primary key for your data model
  primaryKey: Key<string>;    // string key
  // or
  numericKey: Key<number>;    // numeric key

  // Common types
  someString: string;         // Text
  someNumber: number;         // Numbers
  someBoolean: boolean;       // Boolean
  someDate: Date;             // Timestamps
  someArray: string[];        // Arrays
  someObject: object;         // Objects
  someInteger: number & tags.Type<"int64">; // Integer type possible with specific tags
  
  // Nullable fields
  nullableField?: string;  // Optional field
  nullableField2?: string | null;  // Union type

}
```
</TypeScript>

<Python>
You use Pydantic to define your schemas:

```python filename="app/datamodels/BasicDataModel.py"
from moose_lib import Key
from datetime import datetime
from typing import List, Optional
from pydantic import BaseModel, Field

class BasicDataModel(BaseModel):
    # Required: Primary key for your data model
    primary_key: Key[str]
    # or
    numeric_key: Key[int]
    
    # Common types
    some_string: str             # Text
    some_number: int             # Numbers
    some_boolean: bool           # Boolean
    some_date: datetime          # Timestamps
    some_array: List[str]        # Arrays
    
    # Optional fields
    optional_field: Optional[str] = None  # May not be present in all records
```
</Python>

### Advanced Schema Patterns

#### Nested Objects

<TypeScript>
```typescript filename="app/datamodels/NestedDataModel.ts"
import { Key } from "@514labs/moose-lib";

// Define nested object separately
interface NestedObject {
  nestedNumber: number;
  nestedBoolean: boolean;
  nestedArray: number[];
}

export interface DataModelWithNested {
  primaryKey: Key<string>;
  
  // Reference nested object
  nestedData: NestedObject;

  // Or define inline
  inlineNested: {
    someValue: string;
    someOtherValue: number;
  };
}
```
</TypeScript>

<Python>
```python filename="app/datamodels/NestedDataModel.py"
from moose_lib import Key
from typing import List
from pydantic import BaseModel, Field

class NestedObject(BaseModel):
    nested_number: int
    nested_boolean: bool
    nested_array: List[int]

class DataModelWithNested(BaseModel):
    primary_key: Key[str]
    nested_data: NestedObject
```
</Python>

#### Using Enums

<TypeScript>
```typescript filename="app/datamodels/EnumDataModel.ts"
import { Key } from "@514labs/moose-lib";

enum OrderStatus {
  PENDING = "pending",
  PROCESSING = "processing",
  COMPLETED = "completed"
}

export interface Order {
  orderId: Key<string>;
  status: OrderStatus;  // Type-safe status values
  createdAt: Date;
}
```
</TypeScript>

<Python>
```python filename="app/datamodels/EnumDataModel.py"
from enum import Enum
from moose_lib import Key
from datetime import datetime
from pydantic import BaseModel

class OrderStatus(str, Enum):
    PENDING = "pending"
    PROCESSING = "processing"
    COMPLETED = "completed"

class Order(BaseModel):
    order_id: Key[str]
    status: OrderStatus  # Type-safe status values
    created_at: datetime
```
</Python>

### Type Mapping

<TypeScript>
| TypeScript | ClickHouse | Description |
|------------|------------|-------------|
| `string` | String | Text values |
| `number` | Float64 | Numeric values |
| `number & tags.Type<"int64">` | Int64 | Integer values |
| `boolean` | Boolean | True/false values |
| `Date` | DateTime | Timestamp values |
| `Array` | Array | Lists of values |
| `object` | Nested | Nested structures |
| `Enum` | Enum | Enumerated values |
</TypeScript>

<Python>
| Python | ClickHouse | Description |
|--------|------------|-------------|
| `str` | String | Text values |
| `int` | Int64 | Integer values |
| `float` | Float64 | Decimal values |
| `bool` | Boolean | True/false values |
| `datetime` | DateTime | Timestamp values |
| `List[T]` | Array | Lists of values |
| `Enum` | Enum | Enumerated values |
| `Optional[T]` | Nullable | Values may be present or not |
| `Any` | JSON | Any value, use with caution |

</Python>

### Data Modeling Dos and Don'ts

<TypeScript>
Do not use `any` or `unknown` types:
```typescript filename="app/datamodels/AnyFields.ts"
interface BadDataModel {
  unknownField: unknown;
  // or
  anyField: any;
}
```
</TypeScript>


Do not use union types for flexible fields:

<TypeScript>
```ts filename="app/datamodels/FlexibleFields.ts"
// DO NOT -> Use union types for conditional fields
interface BadDataModel {
  conditionalField: string | number;
}

// DO -> break out into multiple optional fields
interface GoodDataModel {
  conditionalString?: string; // Optional field
  conditionalNumber?: number; // Optional field
}
```
</TypeScript>

<Python>
```python filename="app/datamodels/FlexibleFields.py"

# DO NOT -> Use union types for flexible fields
class BadDataModel(BaseModel):
    flexible_field: Union[str, int]

# DO -> Use Any type for flexible fields
class FlexibleDataModel(BaseModel):
    flexible_field: Any ## Maps to JSON type in ClickHouse
```
</Python>

Do not use union types for nullable fields:

<TypeScript>
```typescript filename="app/datamodels/NullableFields.ts"
// DO NOT -> Use union types for nullable fields
interface BadDataModel {
  nullableField: string | null;
}

// DO -> Use Optional type
interface GoodDataModel { 
  nullableField?: string;
}
```
</TypeScript>

<Python>
```python filename="app/datamodels/NullableFields.py"

# DO NOT -> Use union types for nullable fields
class BadDataModel(BaseModel):
    nullable_field: Union[str, None]

# DO -> Use Optional type
class GoodDataModel(BaseModel):
    nullable_field: Optional[str]
```
</Python>

<Python>
Do not use `dict` types:
```python filename="app/datamodels/DictFields.py"

# DO NOT -> Use dict types
class BadDataModel(BaseModel):
    dict_field: Dict[str, Any]

class NestedObject(BaseModel):
    nested_field: str

# DO -> Use Nested type
class GoodDataModel(BaseModel):
    dict_field: NestedObject
```
</Python>


## Infrastructure Configuration

<Callout type="info" title="The HOW">
  This section covers how to apply your data models to infrastructure components.
</Callout>

### Getting Data Into Your Database

#### `IngestPipeline`
The most common pattern - combines ingestion, streaming, and storage into a single component:

<TypeScript>
```ts filename="app/index.ts"
import { IngestPipeline } from "@514labs/moose-lib";

const myPipeline = new IngestPipeline<MyDataModel>("my_pipeline", {
    ingest: true,
    stream: true,
    table: true
});
```
</TypeScript>

<Python>
```python filename="app/index.py"
from moose_lib import IngestPipeline, IngestPipelineConfig

my_pipeline = IngestPipeline[MyDataModel]("my_pipeline", IngestPipelineConfig(
    ingest=True,
    stream=True,
    table=True
))
```
</Python>

<BulletPointsCard
  divider={false}
  bulletStyle="check"
  title="What gets created?"
  bullets={[
    "An HTTP POST endpoint that accepts and validates incoming data against your data model",
    "A typed Redpanda topic that buffers validated data from the ingest API",
    "A ClickHouse table with the same schema as your data model",
    "A Rust process that syncs data from the stream to the table"
  ]}
/>
#### Standalone Components
If you don't need all the components, you can create them individually and wire them together yourself:

##### `OlapTable`
    Creates a ClickHouse table with the same schema as your data model:
    <TypeScript>
    ```typescript filename="app/index.ts"
    import { OlapTable } from "@514labs/moose-lib";
    
    // Basic table
    const myTable = new OlapTable<MyDataModel>("TableName");
    ```
    </TypeScript>
    
    <Python>
    ```python filename="app/index.py"
    from moose_lib import OlapTable
    
    # Basic table
    my_table = OlapTable[MyDataModel]("TableName")
    ```
    </Python>

    <Callout type="info" title="Olap Tables">
      You might use an OlapTable if you do not need streaming ingest capabilities for your data.
      [Learn more about Olap Tables](/moose/building/olap-table)
    </Callout>
  
##### `Stream`
Creates a Redpanda topic that can be configured to sync data to a ClickHouse table with the same schema:
<TypeScript>
```typescript filename="app/index.ts"
import { Stream } from "@514labs/moose-lib";

// Basic stream
const myStream = new Stream<MyDataModel>("TopicName");
```
</TypeScript>

<Python>
```python filename="app/index.py"
from moose_lib import Stream

# Basic stream
my_stream = Stream[MyDataModel]("TopicName")
```
</Python>

<Callout type="info" title="Streams">
  Standalone streams may make sense if you want to transform data on the fly before it is written to the table. [Learn more about stream processing](/moose/building/streams)
</Callout>
  
##### `IngestAPI`
<TypeScript>
```typescript filename="app/index.ts"
import { IngestAPI } from "@514labs/moose-lib";

const myIngestAPI = new IngestAPI<MyDataModel>("api-route-name");
```
</TypeScript>

<Python>
```python filename="app/index.py"
from moose_lib import IngestAPI

my_ingest_api = IngestAPI[MyDataModel]("api-route-name")
```
</Python>
<Callout type="info" title="Ingest APIs">
  Ingest APIs are almost always preferred as part of an `IngestPipeline` instead of being used standalone. [Learn more about Ingestion APIs](/moose/building/ingestion)
</Callout>

### Getting Data Out of Your Database
Data models also power your downstream data processing workflows after data is stored, enabling you to create materialized views and typed APIs that prepare and expose your data for consumption:

#### `MaterializedView`
Materialized views are a way to pre-compute and store the results of complex queries on your data. This allows you to query the materialized view directly for faster results, or use it as the source for another derived table for cascading transformations:
<TypeScript>
```typescript filename="app/index.ts"
import { MaterializedView } from "@514labs/moose-lib";

const myMaterializedView = new MaterializedView<MyDataModel>({
  selectStatement: sql`SELECT * FROM my_table`,
  tableName: "my_table",
  materializedViewName: "my_materialized_view"
});
```
</TypeScript>

<Python>
```python filename="app/index.py"
from moose_lib import MaterializedView

my_materialized_view = MaterializedView[MyDataModel](
  select_statement="SELECT * FROM my_table",
  table_name="my_table",
  materialized_view_name="my_materialized_view"
)
```
</Python>
<Callout type="info" title="Materialized Views">
  [Learn more about Materialized Views](/moose/building/materialized-views)
</Callout>

#### `ConsumptionAPI`
Consumption APIs are a way to expose your data to external consumers. They are typed and validateagainst your data models, ensuring that the client request parameters and response types are correct at runtime:

<TypeScript>
```ts filename="app/index.ts"
import { ConsumptionAPI } from "@514labs/moose-lib";

const myConsumptionAPI = new ConsumptionAPI<RequestDataModel, ResponseDataModel>("MyConsumptionAPI"async({request: RequestDataModel}, {client, sql}) => {
      // Do something with the request
  return new ResponseDataModel();
});
```
</TypeScript>

<Python>
```python filename="app/index.py"
from moose_lib import ConsumptionAPI

def handle(request: RequestDataModel) -> ResponseDataModel:
    # Do something with the request
    return ResponseDataModel()

my_consumption_api = ConsumptionAPI[RequestDataModel, ResponseDataModel]("api_route_name"query_function=handle)
    ```
</Python>

## Validation
Validation at runtime takes place at the following points:
- The body of a `POST` request to an `IngestAPI` endpoint - [Learn more about Ingestion APIs](/moose/building/ingestion#validation)
- The query parameters sent in a `GET` request to a Consumption API - [Learn more about Consumption APIs](/moose/building/consumption-apis#adding-advanced-type-validation)
- The data being synced from a streaming topic to an `OlapTable` - [Learn more about Olap Tables](/moose/building/olap-table)



<Callout type="info" title="Consumption APIs">
  [Learn more about Consumption APIs](/moose/building/consumption-apis)
</Callout>

## Next Steps

<FeatureGrid columns={3}>
  <FeatureCard
    href="/moose/streams"
    title="Streaming Deep Dive"
    description="Learn how to process, transform, and manage data streams in real-time."
  />
  <FeatureCard
    href="/moose/olap-table"
    title="Working with Tables"
    description="Discover how to optimize storage, querying, and analytics with OLAP tables."
  />
  <FeatureCard
    href="/moose/ingestion"
    title="Ingesting Data"
    description="Explore how to efficiently ingest data with automatic schema validation."
  />
</FeatureGrid>
