# Introduction

Aggregations in Moose are reusable queries that let you compute derived data or
summary statistics from your existing data. Think of Aggregations as functions
that operate directly on your data within your database, calculating,
summarizing, combining, and/or deriving new data from across your database
tables.

The result set of these queries is pre-computed and saved as dedicated tables in
your database, enabling integration into various parts of your application for
enhanced metrics and insights.

Aggregations are essentially SQL `SELECT` queries defined in a `.ts` file within
the `/aggregations` folder of your Moose project. Moose automatically handles
the infrastructure and database setup, ensuring that calculations are updated
and executed in real-time as new data becomes available. It does this by
creating a materialized view for your aggregation query, which automatically
re-executes your query every time your database detects new rows have been added
to the table that your `SELECT` statement is querying from.

These aggregated values can be used in analysis, reporting, and dashboards to
aid decision-making. Aggregation also optimizes database performance by reducing
the number of queries needed to process data.

Both Aggregations and Flows are primitives that let you process and transform
your data as new samples are ingested in your Moose app, so it might be unclear
at first how they are different. Hereâ€™s the model for understanding the
difference: Flows are functions that process, clean, map, or augment events in
memory at runtime. Whereas, Aggregations are similar but most effective after
all your data has been ingested, transformed and stored in your database for
consumption.
